ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect our overall performance, the performance of particular businesses and our results of operations, and therefore, an investment in us is subject to risks and uncertainties. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations. While each risk is described separately below, some of these risks are interrelated and it is possible that certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that are currently deemed immaterial, could also potentially impair our overall performance, the performance of particular businesses and our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO PTGI AND OUR OVERALL BUSINESS We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses, which may hinder our ability to meet working capital requirements, and we cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet such requirements. We cannot assure you that we will recognize net income in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or sufficient operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our working capital requirements. Our ability to generate sufficient cash for our operations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We recognized net income of $111.6 million in 2013 (after taking into account $148.8 million of gain from the sale of discontinued operations, net of tax), and net income of $27.9 million in 2012 (after taking into account $94.3 million of gain from the sale of discontinued operations, net of tax) and have incurred net losses in prior periods. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets and/or seek additional capital or financings. Our ability to obtain financings will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any financings could be at high interest rates and may require us to comply with covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such disposition may not be adequate to meet our obligations. 12 Table of Contents PTGi is a holding company and its only material assets are its cash on hand, equity interests in our ICS operating subsidiaries and our other investments; as a result, PTGi’s principal source of revenue and cash flow is distributions from our ICS subsidiaries; our ICS subsidiaries and any future subsidiaries may be limited by law and by contract in making distributions to PTGi. As a holding company, PTGi’s only material assets are its cash on hand, the equity interests in our ICS subsidiaries and other investments. PTGi’s principal source of revenue and cash flow is distributions from our ICS subsidiaries. Thus, PTGi’s ability to service any indebtedness incurred in the future, finance acquisitions and pay dividends to its stockholders is dependent on the ability of our ICS subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to make upstream cash distributions to PTGi. Our ICS subsidiaries are and any acquired businesses will be separate legal entities, and although they may be wholly-owned or controlled by PTGi, they have no obligation to make any funds available to it, whether in the form of loans, dividends, distributions or otherwise. The ability of our ICS subsidiaries or future subsidiaries to distribute cash to PTGi may also be subject to, among other things, restrictions contained in any financing agreements or other contractual arrangements, availability of sufficient funds in such subsidiaries and applicable state laws and regulatory restrictions, including state laws that require dividends to be paid only from surplus. In addition, claims of creditors of our ICS subsidiaries and future subsidiaries generally will have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over PTGi’s claims and claims of its creditors and stockholders. To the extent the ability of our ICS subsidiaries and future subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to PTGi could be limited in any way, our ability to grow and/or pursue business opportunities that could be beneficial to our businesses, or otherwise fund and conduct our businesses, could be materially limited. The Company may not be able to fully utilize its net operating loss and other tax carryforwards. The Company has federal income tax net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income in the amount of $241.0 million, of which $125.0 million is subject to limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, and of which $116.0 million is not subject to the Section 382 limitation. In the event the Company experiences an ownership change, cumulative NOLs would be subject to a new limitation as determined at the change date. In the first quarter of 2014, Schedule 13D filings made with the SEC reported the acquisition of PTGi stock by new shareholders. Among the 13D filings, HGI reported a 40.5% ownership interest taken in the Company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact these stock acquisitions will have on its’ ability to utilize NOLs as determined by Section 382. For additional information, see Note 6 — Income Taxes. The ability of the Company, to utilize its NOL and other tax carryforward amounts to reduce taxable income in future years may be limited for various reasons, including if projected future taxable income is insufficient to recognize the full benefit of such NOL carryforward amounts prior to their expiration. Additionally, the ability of the Company to fully utilize these tax assets could also be adversely affected if PTGi and/or its subsidiaries were deemed to have an “ownership change” within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% increase in equity ownership by “5% shareholders” (as that term is defined for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code) in any three-year period. Future ownership changes, including transfers or dispositions of PTGi’s common stock by stockholders could, depending on their magnitude, result in ownership changes that would trigger the imposition of additional limitations on their utilization under Sections 382 and 383. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the Company will not experience additional limitations on utilizing the tax benefits of its NOL and other tax carryforward amounts. Such limitations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of any members of our senior management or other key personnel, or limitations on their involvement in our business, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. We may not be able to attract new personnel, including management and technical and sales personnel, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate personnel competitively. Competition for the best personnel in our business can be intense. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We may need to increase the size of the Company, and may experience difficulties in managing growth. At the parent holding company level, PTGi, we do not have significant operating assets and only have a limited number of employees performing corporate functions. If we adopt a business strategy that requires that we expand our operations, including in connection with or in anticipation of any future acquisitions or other business opportunities, we may be required to increase our level of corporate functions, which may include hiring additional personnel to perform such functions and enhancing our information technology systems. Any future growth may increase our corporate operating costs and expenses and impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees and implement enhanced informational technology systems. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Our officers, directors, stockholders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. While we have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our officers and directors reasonably designed to promote the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships, we have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, stockholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. We have in the past engaged in transactions in which such persons have an interest and, subject to the terms of any applicable covenants in financing arrangements or other agreements we may enter into from time to time, may in the future enter into additional transactions in which such persons have an interest. In addition, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnerships or joint ventures in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. In the course of their other business activities, certain of our current and future directors and officers may become aware of business and acquisition opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to our Company as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated. Such directors and officers may therefore not present otherwise attractive business or acquisition opportunities to us. Certain of our current and future directors and officers may become aware of business and acquisition opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to those directors’ and officers’ affiliations with other entities, they may have obligations to present potential business and acquisition opportunities to those entities, which could cause conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may not present otherwise attractive business or acquisition opportunities to us. 14 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and applicable regulations may discourage the takeover of our Company, may make removal of our management more difficult and may depress our stock price. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our management. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for PTGi common stock. As a result, these provisions could prevent PTGi’s stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock above the prevailing market prices. These provisions include: • the authority of PTGi’s Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine; • special meetings of PTGi’s stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board , the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the then authorized number of directors; • the absence of cumulative voting rights; and • the authority of PTGi’s Board of Directors to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of PTGi common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed an investment company and we may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. The Company has not held, and does not hold, itself out as an investment company and does not believe it is an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If the SEC or a court were to disagree with the Company, the Company could be required to register as an investment company. This would subject us to disclosure and accounting rules geared toward investment, rather than operating, companies; limiting our ability to borrow money, issue options, issue multiple classes of stock and debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates; and requiring the Company to undertake significant costs and expenses to meet the disclosure and regulatory requirements to which it would be subject as a registered investment company. Limitations on liability and indemnification matters. We have included in PTGi’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), a provision to eliminate the personal liability of PTGi’s directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, to the extent permitted by Delaware law. The Certificate of Incorporation also provides that we must indemnify, and advance expenses to, any director or officer of the Company in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, brought against such director or officer by reason of his or her service to the Company, to the extent permitted by Delaware law and as set forth in PTGi’s amended and restated bylaws. PTGi’s amended and restated bylaws also provide that we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, whether or not indemnification against the insured liabilities would otherwise be permissible. Pursuant to PTGi’s amended and restated bylaws, PTGi may also, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Company. Our obligation to provide indemnification and advance expenses to directors and officers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the event such persons incurred significant liabilities in connection with their service to the Company. 15 Table of Contents From time to time we may be subject to litigation for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which, if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are or may become party to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary or routine litigation incidental to our current or prior businesses or not material to our financial position or results of operations. We also are or may become party to legal proceedings with the potential to be material to our financial position or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation in which we may become involved, or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Continuing global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval over the past several years. Many major economies worldwide entered significant economic recessions beginning in 2007 and continue to experience economic weakness, with the potential for another economic downturn to occur. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread recession and potentially prolonged economic recovery, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence and demand, and substantially increased unemployment rates have all contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for many established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. These general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations, results of operations and overall financial condition. The availability, cost and terms of credit also have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers over the past several years, and a corresponding slowdown in global infrastructure spending. Continued uncertainty in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged stagnation in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to access capital markets and obtain capital lease financing to meet liquidity needs. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND BUSINESSES We are evaluating several strategic and business alternatives, and may not be able to successfully implement any of them. We are evaluating several strategic and business alternatives, which may include the following: acquiring assets or businesses unrelated to our current or historical telecommunications operations, operating, growing or acquiring additional assets or business related to our current or historical telecommunications operations, including expanding our ICS business, or winding down or selling our existing operations, including the ICS business. As part of any acquisition strategy, we may raise capital in the form of debt or equity securities (including preferred stock) or a combination thereof. We have broad discretion in selecting a business strategy for the Company. If we elect to pursue an acquisition, we have broad discretion in identifying and selecting both the industries and the possible acquisition or business combination opportunities. We have not identified a specific industry to focus on and there can be no assurance that we will, or we will be able to, identify or successfully complete any such transactions. In addition, if we determine to wind-down our operation, due to a variety of reasons, including contractual and regulatory limitations, we may be unable to timely liquidate assets to provide a meaningful return to our stockholders. In addition, while our new affiliation with HGI and its 16 Table of Contents personnel may give us access to new acquisition and business combination opportunities, HGI, its affiliates and personnel are not obligated to provide us with access to any acquisition or business combination opportunities and may at any time be seeking investment opportunities similar to those being considered by the Company. Risks Related to Acquiring Assets or Businesses Unrelated to Our Current or Historical Telecommunications Operations We may not be successful in identifying and consummating any suitable acquisition or business opportunities. If we determine to pursue a business acquisition strategy, we may not be successful in identifying or consummating suitable acquisitions, and attractive business opportunities, which may be further limited or prohibited by applicable regulatory regimes. Even if we do acquire other businesses or pursue business opportunities, there is no assurance that we will be successful in enhancing our business or our financial condition thereby. Any such acquisition or business may require a substantial amount of our management time and may be difficult for us to integrate, which could adversely affect management’s ability to operate our existing operations and identify and consummate other acquisitions or business opportunities. In addition, our ability to acquire certain target businesses or pursue certain business opportunities that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. We may need to obtain additional capital through one or more financings or offerings of debt or equity securities in order to consummate future acquisitions and business opportunities. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. This inherent limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing acquisition and business opportunities. Future acquisitions or business opportunities could involve unknown risks that could harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we determine to pursue a business acquisition strategy, in the future we may acquire businesses that involve unknown risks, some of which will be particular to the industry in which the businesses or acquisition targets operate. Although we intend to conduct extensive business, financial and legal due diligence in connection with the evaluation of future business or acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance our due diligence investigations will identify every matter that could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such businesses or acquisitions, especially if we are unfamiliar with the relevant industry. The realization of any unknown risks could expose us to unanticipated costs and liabilities and prevent or limit us from realizing the projected benefits of the businesses or acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by any specific risks applicable to any business opportunity we pursue or company we acquire. Any acquisition of a foreign business or a company with significant foreign operations may subject us to additional risks. If we determine to pursue a business acquisition strategy, in the future we may acquire businesses a foreign business or other companies with significant foreign operations that would subject us to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, complex foreign regulatory regimes, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders, restrictions on the movement of funds across national borders and cultural and language differences. If realized, some of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We could consume resources in researching acquisitions, business opportunities, financings and capital market transactions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and subsequent ability to identify and consummate other such transactions. If we determine to pursue a business acquisition strategy, we anticipate that the investigation of each specific acquisition, business opportunity, financing and capital market transaction and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments, with respect to such transaction, will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for financial advisors, accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific acquisition, business opportunity, financing or capital market transaction, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific acquisition, business opportunity, financing or capital market transaction, we may fail to consummate such transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event could consume significant management time and result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and subsequent ability to identify and consummate other such transactions. We expect to incur substantial costs in connection with any transaction we complete in the future, which will reduce the amount of our available cash and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we determine to pursue a business acquisition strategy, we expect to incur substantial costs in connection with any transaction we complete in the future, including any strategic acquisition or other business opportunity. There is no assurance that the actual costs will not exceed our estimates with respect to any such transaction. These costs will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available to us for acquisitions, business opportunities and other corporate purposes and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a stockholder vote and may be material to us. If we determine to pursue business acquisition strategy, any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and our stockholders and potential investors may have virtually no substantive information about any new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in PTGi’s common stock. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any acquisitions, stockholders are generally expected to not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, and may not have access to any information about any new business until the transaction is completed and we file a report with the SEC disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. Similarly, we may effect material dispositions in the future. Even if a stockholder vote is required for any of our future acquisitions or dispositions, under our amended and restated bylaws, our stockholders may approve such transactions by written consent, which may result in only our large stockholders having an opportunity to vote on such transactions. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. If we determine to pursue business acquisition strategy, we may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions or dispositions of, holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets. Our decisions to make a particular acquisition or sell a particular asset may be based on considerations other than the timing and amount of taxes owed as a result. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Operating, Growing or Acquiring Additional Assets or Businesses Related to our Current or Historical Telecommunications Operations (including expanding and continuing to operate our ICS Business) Strengthening of the United States Dollar (“USD”) against certain foreign currencies, including the British Pound Sterling (“GBP”), reduces the amount of USDs generated from foreign currency payments from our foreign operating subsidiary and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to service any indebtedness. A portion of our net revenue from continuing operations (about 53% for the year ended December 31, 2013) was derived from sales and operations outside the U.S. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the USD. Our foreign operating subsidiaries, including our operating subsidiaries in Canada, which were sold in July 2013, and in the United Kingdom, generate cash in their respective local currencies and fluctuations in exchange rates can have a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net operating cash flow from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S., which is a substantial source for servicing any debt obligations and paying corporate expenses. Changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. From December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the GBP increased by 9.1% relative to the GBP, which had a positive impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, the GBP decreased by 3.9% relative to the USD. From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, the GBP decreased by 0.1% relative to the USD. From December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012, the GBP increased by 3.4% relative to the USD. From December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013, the GBP increased by 2.4% relative to the USD. Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the U.S., and the cash transfers from these foreign operating subsidiaries to the U.S. parent, a strengthening of the USD relative to the GBP could have an adverse impact on future results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to service any debt obligations and pay corporate expenses at the parent entity level. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions with respect to our operations. The exposure of our income from operations to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is reduced in part because a majority of the costs that we incur in connection with our foreign operations are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage could adversely affect our ability to attract and to retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The carrier services telecommunications industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger business participants. ICS faces competition for its voice trading services from communication services providers’ traditional processes and new companies. Once communications services providers have established business relationships with competitors to ICS, it could be extremely difficult to convince them to utilize our services. These competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to ICS’s services or processes, or that achieve greater industry acceptance. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network 19 Table of Contents and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty and long-standing relationships with our target customers. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. While growth through acquisitions is a possible strategy for ICS, there are no guarantees that any acquisitions will occur, nor are there any assurances that any acquisitions by ICS would improve the financial results of the business. Several long-distance carriers in the U.S., and the major wireless carriers and cable companies have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates or unlimited plans for domestic and international calls. This strategy could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, which we set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Maintaining international operations will subject ICS to additional risks and uncertainties. ICS maintains international operations, which will subject ICS to additional risks and uncertainties. ICS has established delivery points (“EDPs”) in New Jersey, London and Frankfurt. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of additional risks that could have an adverse effect on ICS’s business, including: • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changing and conflicting regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • tariffs and general export restrictions; • difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • potential non-enforceability of ICS’s intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign countries; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. ICS’s inability to manage these risks effectively could result in increased costs and distractions and may adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results. Any failure of ICS’s physical infrastructure, including undetected defects in technology, could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce its revenue and harm its business reputation and financial results. ICS depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. ICS must protect its infrastructure and any collocated equipment from numerous factors, including: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; 20 Table of Contents • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; • water damage; • power loss; and • terrorism, sabotage and vandalism. Problems at one or more of ICS’s EDPs, whether or not within ICS’s control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to terminate voice calls or supply Internet capacity could reduce the confidence of the members and customers and could consequently impair ICS’s ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both ICS’s ability to generate revenues and its operating results. Our positioning in the marketplace and intense domestic and international competition in these services places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. To manage our market positioning effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to expand our coverage and capacity, maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, evolve our support and billing systems and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, support, sales and marketing, administrative resources, network infrastructure, maintenance and upgrading. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based local, wireless, broadband, data and long-distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets and regulatory requirements could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, for the year ended December 31, 2013, derived about 53% of our net revenues from continuing operations by providing services outside of the U.S. We are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carriers that operate in each of the jurisdictions where we operate, including in international markets. In these markets, incumbent carriers: (1) are likely to modify and/or control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; (2) enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; (3) generally offer a wider range of products and services; and (4) have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and longer term customer and supplier agreements on generally better prevailing terms. Moreover, the incumbent carriers may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to their switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: (A) obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate in the new service areas; (B) obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or (C) market services in international markets. 21 Table of Contents In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes or uncertainties in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs and duties. Given the nature of our operations and uncertainties in, or the absence of definitive regulations or interpretations concerning, the taxation of (including value added tax of) certain aspects of our business in certain international jurisdictions in which we conduct operations or derive taxable revenue (or may be construed by such authorities as conducting operations or deriving taxable revenue), we may become subject to assessments for taxes (which may include penalties and interest) which are either unexpected, or have not been accrued for in our historical results of operations or both. Such developments, in addition to the other uncertainties and risks described above, could have adverse consequences that might result in restatement of prior period results of operations and unanticipated liquidity demands. Additional operating risks and uncertainties in operating in international markets include trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions and costs associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties, particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the U.S. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, data and hosting and wireless broadband through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions or do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage, maintain and upgrade a reliable and cost-effective network infrastructure. In addition, we rely on third party equipment and service vendors to enable us to expand and manage our global network through which we provide our services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary aspects of our network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. If we are not able to use and protect intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets, licenses and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We are subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others and may need to litigate against others to protect our intellectual property rights. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and/or operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in any such litigation. 22 Table of Contents We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or our inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated and could cause service disruption to our customers. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business, and there can be no assurance that suitable alternative products would be available. We also rely on indemnification provisions from third parties to protect against claims of infringement regarding the licensed technology, which indemnification could be affected by, among other things, the financial strength of the licensor. Furthermore, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country where we do business. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property or other licensed rights could harm our business and/or our ability to compete effectively. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DIVESTITURES The sale of our BLACKIRON Data and North America Telecom segments substantially reduced our revenue and caused our business to be less diversified. As described above under “Business—Divestitures,” (i) on April 17, 2013, the Company divested its BLACKIRON Data segment to Rogers Communications Inc. and its affiliates, pursuant to an equity purchase agreement related thereto (the “BLACKIRON Purchase Agreement”), and (ii) on July 31, 2013, the Company divested substantially all of its North America Telecom segment to York Capital Management and its affiliates, pursuant to an equity purchase agreement related thereto (the “North America Telecom Purchase Agreement”), with the exception of the divestiture of PTI pursuant thereto, which was deferred pending the receipt of regulatory approvals. Our BLACKIRON Data segment accounted for approximately $11.3 million, or 3.1%, of our net revenues, and our North America Telecom segment accounted for approximately $121.1 million, or 33.3%, of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. Following the consummation of these transactions, our ability to produce revenues will therefore be substantially reduced. There can be no assurance that the proceeds from the divestitures and the revenues and profits generated from the remaining operations of the Company, which presently consists of ICS, along with other capital that we have access to, will be adequate to sustain our business objectives. The BLACKIRON Purchase Agreement and North America Telecom Purchase Agreement may expose us to contingent liabilities. Pursuant to the BLACKIRON Purchase Agreement and the North America Telecom Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the purchasers of such operations for certain breaches of representations, warranties and covenants made by us in such agreements, subject to certain limitations. Our indemnification obligations are subject to limitations, but the limitation on our maximum exposure is quite high. In some instances our indemnification obligations are not subject to any limitations. Significant indemnification claims by such purchasers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The purchasers’ use of our trademarks and related brands following the consummation of the North America Telecom transaction could adversely affect our business. Our trademarks and related brands and associated goodwill represent a key component of the value of our business, and any impairment to the goodwill associated with our trademarks and related brands could adversely affect our business. The purchasers acquired certain of our trademarks in the North America Telecom transaction, including but not necessarily limited to the Primus trademark, which will prevent us from doing 23 Table of Contents business under our former Primus name. As a result, following the consummation of the North America Telecom transaction, the goodwill associated with those trademarks and related brands will be partially dependent on the purchasers’ reputation and use of our trademarks and related brands, which could be harmed due to factors outside of our control. If the purchasers fail to maintain the quality of the products with which they use our trademarks consistent with our historical standards, or if the purchasers’ reputation among consumers is harmed for any reason, the goodwill associated with our trademarks and related brands could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to constantly changing regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, including the imposition of fees and taxes, the potential adverse effects of which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that domestic, foreign or international regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, growth and financial performance. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Many regulatory actions are underway or are being contemplated by governmental agencies, including the ongoing FCC initiative to promote expanded broadband services in the U.S. It is impossible to predict at this time what specific rules or requirements the FCC will propose or adopt, or how any such rules or requirements would affect our business or financial results. The FCC or Congress in the United States may revise how companies like us contribute to certain federal programs that could increase our costs, reduce our profitability, or make our services less competitive in the communications marketplace. In the U.S., the Communications Act and associated FCC regulations require that every provider of interstate telecommunications contribute, on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, to federal universal service mechanisms established by the FCC, which affects our cost of providing services. At present, these contributions are calculated based on contributors’ interstate and international revenue derived from U.S. end users for telecommunications or telecommunications services, as those terms are defined under FCC regulations. The FCC has been considering new rules regarding universal service contribution since 2012, but to date has taken no action either to adopt or to reject the proposed changes. These new proposals would likely affect most of our competitors, but not all of our competitors would be affected in the same way or to the same degree as we would be. It is impossible to predict the impact of these new proposals, if adopted, on our operations and financial results. We cannot predict whether the FCC will adopt any particular contribution methodology, nor can we predict the potential impact on our business at this time. A revised contribution methodology could increase our contribution obligation, including increasing our contribution disproportionately compared to some of our competitors. In such event, we may need to either raise the total amount of our consumer’s bills, potentially making us less competitive with other providers of communications services, or reduce our profit margins. Other international governmental regulation could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive and may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. We cannot make assurances that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in 24 Table of Contents the future. International regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include general changes in access charges and contribution payments that could adversely affect our cost of providing services. Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in the rates we pay to interconnected telecommunications carriers in the U.S. may affect our profitability and increase the retail price of our service. In November 2011, the FCC adopted a major reform of the rules governing payments between telecommunications carriers for the exchange of traffic that is necessary to complete long-distance telephone calls to the traditional telephone network. Under the new rules, LECs generally are prohibited from increasing their rates for termination and origination of long-distance calls (except for the origination charges of smaller telephone companies serving less than 2% of all telephone lines in the U.S.). Starting July 1, 2012, all LECs have been required to reduce their rates for terminating both interstate and in-state long-distance calls in a series of steps until (in most cases) the rates are reduced to zero effective July 1, 2018. Charges for outgoing calls originated by U.S. customers are not required to be reduced, except for certain dedicated transport charges which are subject to the reductions described above, although the FCC is conducting a further rulemaking proceeding in which it will consider possible reductions to originating charges. The FCC’s decision is subject to petitions for reconsideration as well as multiple petitions for judicial review, which could result in changes in either the transition schedule or the ultimate elimination of terminating charges. Because of the continuing proceedings both at the FCC and in the courts, we face ongoing uncertainty as to our future costs for both originating and terminating telephone calls in the U.S. Further, we face uncertainty as to whether and how our competitors will adjust their retail prices in response to changes in the cost of call termination, which may affect our own pricing and profit margins. Access to the Internet is required by us and our users in order to offer our services. If Internet access providers or other companies involved in handling Internet traffic are able to block, degrade or charge us so that we cannot offer quality services, we could incur additional costs or lose customers. Our service offerings require that customers have access to broadband Internet access at a sufficient bandwidth in order to support call quality and other related services. We and our customers rely on service providers that have significant market power in the broadband Internet access marketplace including incumbent providers of wireline telephone services, cable companies and wireless companies. It is possible that some of these providers could take measures to degrade or disrupt our services, or increase the cost to us or our users to obtain access to certain levels of bandwidth necessary to make our service offerings. On December 23, 2010, the FCC adopted an order that imposed “network neutrality” rules on providers of fixed and wireless broadband Internet access services, with wireless providers subject to a more limited set of rules. Among other things, the rules: (1) require providers of consumer broadband Internet access to publicly disclose their network management practices and the performance and commercial terms of their broadband Internet access services; (2) prohibited broadband Internet access providers from blocking lawful content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices, subject to reasonable network management; and (3) prohibited fixed broadband Internet access providers from unreasonably discriminating in the transmission of lawful network traffic over a consumer’s broadband Internet access service. In January 2014, however, the rules against blocking and against unreasonable discrimination were vacated by a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. (The disclosure rule remains in effect.) The FCC has stated its intention to adopt new rules consistent with the court decision, but the details of such rules and the timing of their adoption are unknown at this time. If an Internet access provider were to interfere with access to our products and services, such actions could result in a loss of existing users and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, thereby harming our revenue and growth. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to the requirements of the Federal Trade Commission’s “Red Flag” identity theft rules. We must comply with Section 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (“FACTA”) and rules of the FTC that require “creditors” to develop and effectuate written internal programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with their accounts. The rules became effective on January 1, 2011, and we may be deemed to be a “creditor” as defined in the FACTA to the extent that we use consumer reports in connection with providing service to customers, or provide information to debt collectors or consumer reporting agencies. On December 6, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission published an interim final rule that narrows the circumstances under which creditors are covered by the Red Flag Rule. The interim final rule amends the definition of ‘‘creditor’’ in the Red Flag Rule to clarify that a creditor is covered only if, in the ordinary course of business, it regularly obtains or uses consumer reports in connection with a credit transaction, furnishes information to consumer reporting agencies in connection with a credit transaction, or advances funds to or on behalf of a person, in certain cases. The FTC accepted public comment on the interim final rule until February 11, 2013, at which point such interim rule became effective. We are taking steps to ensure compliance with the FTC’s rules, but if and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the rules we may be subject to fines, penalties, compliance orders or any combination of the foregoing. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to our existing businesses, businesses that we may acquire in the future and newly formed businesses or entities. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. In addition, we may acquire an entity that was not previously subject to U.S. public company requirements or did not previously prepare financial statements in accordance with US GAAP or is not in compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or other public company reporting obligations applicable to such entity. We may incur significant additional costs in order to ensure that after such acquisition we continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and its other public company requirements, which in turn would reduce our earnings and negatively affect our liquidity or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, development of an adequate financial reporting system and the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. To the extent any of these newly acquired entities or any existing entities have deficiencies in its internal controls, it may impact our internal controls. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting or material misstatements in our financial statements. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting to the extent required by 26 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. Financial information for periods after July 1, 2009 will not be comparable to our financial information from periods before July 1, 2009 due to our Reorganization and the application of fresh-start accounting to our financial statements. Upon the Holding Companies’ emergence from Chapter 11 on July 1, 2009, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) No. 852, “Reorganizations” (“ASC 852”), pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the Reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with ASC No. 805, “Business Combinations” (“ASC 805”), using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting, our accumulated deficit ($1.06 billion at June 30, 2009) has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data for periods following the effective date of the Plan or Reorganization will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the Reorganization. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LIQUIDITY NEEDS AND SECURITIES We may not be able to generate sufficient cash for our operations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash for our operations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or seek additional capital or financings. Our ability to obtain financings will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any financings could be at high interest rates and may require us to comply with covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In the absence of favorable operating results or access to other financial resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such disposition may not be adequate to meet our obligations. The delisting of PTGi’s common stock from the New York Stock Exchange may have adversely affected the liquidity of such common stock and our ability to raise capital. On November 4, 2013, PTGi’s Board of Directors approved the voluntarily delisting of PTGi’s common stock from the NYSE. After PTGi’s common stock was delisted from the NYSE, it has been quoted over-the-counter on the OTCQB. However, the Company can provide no assurance that trading in PTGi’s common stock will continue on the OTCQB or otherwise. Moreover, PTGi’s common stock may become more illiquid now that it is no longer traded on the NYSE, which could negatively impact market prices for PTGi’s common stock and make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares. In addition, the trading of PTGi’s common stock on the OTCQB, and any limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of PTGi’s common stock resulting therefrom, may materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources or on terms acceptable to us. 27 Table of Contents Future financing activities may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and financial condition. We may in the future incur indebtedness through the establishment of credit facilities, the issuance of debt securities or otherwise, in order to enable us to operate our businesses or consummate future acquisitions and investment opportunities. These obligations could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if we are unable to repay our financial obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay such indentedness even if we make all required payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all amounts owed, if any, if such financial obligations are payable on demand; • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if such financial obligations contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the financial obligations remain outstanding; • our inability to pay dividends on our capital stock; • the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest or dividends on our financial obligations, which will reduce the funds available for dividends, expenses, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industries in which we operate; • an event of default that triggers a cross default with respect to any other financial obligations; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors that have less debt. PTGi may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock, which could dilute the interests of its stockholders and present other risks. PTGi’s Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 26, 2014, PTGi has 15,342,243 shares of its common stock issued and outstanding, and it has not issued any shares of preferred stock. However, the Certificate of Incorporation authorizes PTGi’s Board of Directors to from time to time issue preferred stock having rights that are senior to those afforded to the holders of PTGi’s common stock. PTGi also has reserved shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to its broad-based equity incentive plans, upon exercise of stock options and other equity-based awards granted thereunder. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding Class A Warrants (divided into three separate series (Class A-1, Class A-2 and Class A-3 Warrants)) and Class B Warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to approximately 19.5 million shares of PTGi’s common stock at various exercise prices applicable to each series of such warrants, subject to adjustment from time to time for certain occurrences. These warrants were initially issued in July 2009 and have a five-year term expiring on July 1, 2014. In addition, PTGi may issue shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock to raise additional capital, to complete a business combination or other acquisition, to capitalize new businesses or new or existing businesses of our operating subsidiaries or pursuant to other employee incentive plans, any of which could dilute the interests of PTGi’s stockholders and present other risks. 28 Table of Contents The issuance of additional shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock may, among other things: • significantly dilute the equity interest and voting power of all other stockholders; • subordinate the rights of holders of PTGi’s common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of PTGi’s common stock; • call for us to make dividend or other payments not available to the holders of PTGi’s common stock; and • cause a change in control of our company if a substantial number of shares of PTGi’s common stock is issued and/or if any preferred stock having substantial voting rights is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our NOL carryforwards as discussed above. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock, or perceptions in the market that such issuances could occur, may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of PTGi’s common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. HGI holds a significant portion of our outstanding voting stock; decisions by HGI, including the decision to sell its PTGi securities, could adversely affect us or the trading prices of our common stock. In January 2014, HGI acquired approximately 40.5% of PTGi’s outstanding common stock. Accordingly, HGI may have significant influence over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, such as the election of directors, approval of amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and approval of certain corporate transactions. Among other things, this influence may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire PTGi because any such transaction would likely require the consent of HGI. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of PTGi’s common stock by HGI, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of PTGi’s common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Price fluctuations in PTGi’s common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors. The trading price of PTGi’s common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations and the performance of our competitors; • reaction of the market to our announcement of any future acquisitions or investments; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in general economic conditions; 29 Table of Contents • actions of PTGi’s equity investors, including sales of PTGi’s common stock by HGI; and • actions by institutional investors trading in PTGi’s stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 