ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect our overall performance, the performance of our individual business segments and our results of operations, and therefore, an investment in us is subject to risks and uncertainties. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations. While each risk is described separately below, some of these risks are interrelated and it is possible that certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that are currently deemed immaterial, could also potentially impair our overall performance, the performance of our individual business segments and our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND OVERALL BUSINESS Continuing global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval over the past several years. Many major economies worldwide entered significant economic recessions beginning in 2007 and continue to experience economic weakness, with the potential for another economic downturn to occur. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread recession and potentially prolonged economic recovery, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence and demand, a looming euro zone crisis and substantially increased unemployment rates have all contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for many established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. These general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations, results of operations and overall financial condition. The availability, cost and terms of credit also have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial and continuing decrease in spending by businesses and consumers over the past several years, and a corresponding slowdown in global infrastructure spending. Continued uncertainty in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged stagnation in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease financing to meet liquidity needs. There are uncertainties introduced by our announcement of our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. On October 4, 2011, we announced that a special committee of our Board of Directors has retained the services of Jefferies & Company, Inc. to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, which may include (but may not be limited to) a sale, merger or other business combination, a recapitalization, a joint venture arrangement, the sale or spinoff of our assets or one or more of our business units, or the continued execution of our business plans. There is no set timetable for completion of the evaluation process, and we do not intend to provide updates or make any comments regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives, unless our Board of Directors has approved a specific transaction or otherwise deems disclosure appropriate. There can be no assurance that any such transaction will be pursued or consummated. We may also incur substantial costs in connection with the pursuit of strategic alternatives which are not ultimately consummated. Also, there are risks inherent with the consummation of any such transaction, such as the risks that the expected enhancement of shareholder value may not be realized, that unexpected liabilities may result from such transaction and that the process of consummating or the effects of consummating such a transaction may cause interruption or slow down the operations of our existing or continuing businesses. 26 Table of Contents We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Arbinet Merger. We expect that the Merger with Arbinet will result in various benefits including, among other things, synergies, cost savings, maintaining business and customer levels of activity and operating efficiencies. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits from combining our business with that of Arbinet. The process of integrating Arbinet’s business into our ICS business is subject to a number of uncertainties. Although our plans for integration are focused on minimizing those uncertainties to help achieve the anticipated benefits, no assurance can be given that these benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Integration efforts associated with the Merger could divert management attention and resources away from operating and strategic objectives and could have an adverse effect on our business during the transition period. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. In addition, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs or realize other efficiencies from integrating Arbinet into our business in sufficient amounts to offset part or all of the transaction and merger-related costs incurred by us in connection with the Merger. Strengthening of the United States Dollar (“USD”) against certain foreign currencies reduces the amount of USDs generated from foreign currency payments from our foreign operating subsidiaries and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to service our debt. A significant portion of our net revenue (about 82% for the year ended December 31, 2011) is derived from sales and operations outside the U.S. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the USD. Our foreign operating subsidiaries, including our largest operating subsidiaries in Canada and Australia, generate cash in their respective local currencies and fluctuations in exchange rates can have a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net operating cash flow from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S., which is a substantial source for servicing our significant debt obligations at the parent entity level, as well as a source for making principal payments and paying corporate expenses. Changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. From June 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the Canadian and Australian dollars (“CAD” and “AUD,” respectively) declined by 17% and 28%, respectively, relative to the USD, which had a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. Conversely, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the CAD and AUD increased by 11% and 35%, respectively, relative to the USD. From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, the CAD and AUD increased by 5% and 10%, respectively, relative to the USD. From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 the CAD and AUD decreased by 1% and increased by 2%, respectively, relative to the USD. Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the U.S., and the cash transfers from these foreign operating subsidiaries to the U.S. parent, a strengthening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to service our significant debt obligations and make principal payments at the parent entity level, and pay corporate expenses. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions. The exposure of our income from operations to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is reduced in part because a majority of the costs that we incur in connection with our foreign operations are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. 27 Table of Contents We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage could adversely affect our ability to attract and to retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The local, long-distance, Internet, broadband, DSL, data and hosting and wireless telecommunications industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger business participants. Prices in the long-distance industry have continued to decline in recent years and, as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. The most significant competitors in our primary markets include: • United States: AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., CenturyLink Inc., and other incumbent carriers, cable companies, including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc., other competitive LECs, including PaeTec Communications, Inc., Time Warner Telecom Inc., XO Communications Services, Inc. and Frontier Communications Corp., independent VoIP providers, including Vonage Holdings Corp and Cbeyond, Inc., wireless carriers in the U.S., including Verizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., Sprint Corp., T-Mobile USA Inc., MetroPCS Communications, Inc. and Leap Wireless International, Inc., and Web-based companies, including Skype Technologies S.A. and Google Inc.; • Australia: Telstra, SingTel Optus Pty Limited, Telecom New Zealand Limited, iiNet Limited, SP Telemedia Limited (known as TPG), Macquarie Telecom Group Ltd. and other smaller national and regional service providers and resellers; and • Canada: TELUS, Bell Canada, MTS Allstream, Inc., Saskatchewan Telecommunications, wireless providers, including Rogers, TELUS, Bell Canada, Bragg Communications Inc., COGECO Inc., Quebecor Inc. and Shaw Communications, Inc., cable companies, and other service providers and resellers including Globalive Communications Corp. in Canada. Customers frequently change local, long-distance, wireless and broadband providers and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VoIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, customers generally can switch carriers and service offerings at their discretion with little notice to us. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences affect markets outside the U.S., competition in non-U.S. markets is increasing to a level similar to the intense competition in the U.S. The ICS business faces competition for its voice trading services from communication services providers’ legacy processes and new companies that may be able to create centralized trading solutions that replicate ICS’s voice trading platforms. The ICS business’ PrivateExchange and AssuredAxcess solutions may compete with communication services providers’ legacy processes, communication services providers themselves and potentially other companies that provide software and services to communication services providers. The ICS business faces competition for its data trading services from ISPs and Internet capacity resellers, and to a lesser extent, software-based, Internet infrastructure companies and Internet network service providers. These companies may be more effective in attracting voice traffic than the Exchange, and Carrier Services offerings (“Carrier Services”). Once communications services providers have established business relationships with competitors to the ICS business, it could be extremely difficult to convince them to utilize the Exchange or Carrier Services. These competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to ICS’s services or processes, or that achieve greater industry acceptance. Where the ICS business competes with legacy processes, it may be particularly difficult to convince customers to utilize the Exchange or Carrier Services. 28 Table of Contents Since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers on an anonymous basis, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing businesses, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange. If participants withdraw from the Exchange in significant numbers, it could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm the ICS business. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers and lower debt-leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. Several long-distance carriers in the U.S., Canada and Australia and the major wireless carriers and cable companies have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates or unlimited plans for domestic and international calls. This strategy could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, which we set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Given strong competition in delivering individual and bundled local, wireless, broadband, DSL and VoIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand these parts of our business. We have accelerated initiatives to become an integrated wireline, wireless and broadband service provider in order to counter competitive pricing pressures initiated by large incumbent providers in certain of the principal markets where we operate and to stem the loss of certain of our wireline voice and dial-up ISP customers to our competitors’ bundled wireline, wireless and broadband service offerings. Our primary competitors include incumbent telecommunications providers, cable companies and other ISPs that have a significant presence in the relevant market or internationally. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. We are experiencing increased competition from traditional telecommunications carriers, cable companies and other new entrants that have expanded into the market for broadband, VoIP, Internet services, data and hosting and traditional voice services. In addition, regulatory developments may impair our ability to compete. Therefore, future operations involving these individual or bundled services may not succeed in the competitive environment, and we (1) may not be able to expand successfully; (2) may experience margin pressure; (3) may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; (4) may have limited resources to develop and to market our new services; and (5) may have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will reverse revenue declines in our traditional long-distance voice and dial-up ISP services or maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate sufficient income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. Our positioning in the marketplace and intense domestic and international competition in these services places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace to focus on Growth Services segments of the telecom market, including broadband, SME VoIP, Australian on-net local services, data, and data center services may place a significant 29 Table of Contents strain on our management, operational and financial resources and increase demand on our systems and controls. However, the local and long-distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless industries are intensely competitive, present relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and involve numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, and cable television companies, who could offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television services, and electric power utilities, who could offer voice and broadband Internet access. For example, the U.S. and many other countries have committed to open their telecommunications markets to competition pursuant to an agreement under the World Trade Organization which began on January 1, 1998. Further, in the U.S., the major landline incumbent carriers (including AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) have for many years also provided long-distance services, and previously independent long-distance providers (including AT&T Inc. and MCI Inc.) have been acquired by the landline incumbents. In addition, many entities, including large cable television companies (including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc.) and utilities have been allowed to enter both the local service and long-distance telecommunications markets. To manage our market positioning effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to expand its coverage and capacity including the data centers expansion, maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, evolve our support and billing systems and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, support, sales and marketing, administrative resources, network infrastructure, maintenance and upgrading. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting, which could impact debt covenant compliance. We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses which may hinder our ability to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. As of June 30, 2009, the Predecessor Company had an accumulated deficit of $1.06 billion. The Predecessor Company incurred net losses of $149.2 million in 2005, $238.0 million in 2006 and $25.0 million in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Predecessor Company recognized net income of $15.7 million, of which $32.7 million of revenue was related to the positive impact of foreign currency transaction gains. Even with the elimination of our significant accumulated deficit and the reduction in indebtedness through our reorganization under Chapter 11 in 2009, future losses may continue. In this regard, the Successor Company incurred a net loss of $19.1 million in 2010 and a net loss of $38.7 million in 2011. In addition, at December 31, 2010, Arbinet’s accumulated deficit was $137.6 million. Arbinet incurred net losses of $17.0 million, $8.7 million, $14.9 million, $6.9 million, and $0.4 million for the years ended 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In light of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we will recognize net income in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or sufficient operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based local, wireless, broadband, data and long-distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand 30 Table of Contents our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets and regulatory requirements could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, for the year ended December 31, 2011, derived about 82% of our net revenues by providing services outside of the U.S. We are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carriers that operate in each of the jurisdictions where we operate, including in international markets. In these markets, incumbent carriers: (1) are likely to modify and/or control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; (2) enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; (3) generally offer a wider range of products and services; and (4) have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and longer term customer and supplier agreements on generally better prevailing terms. Moreover, the incumbent carriers may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to their switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: (A) obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate in the new service areas; (B) obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or (C) market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes or uncertainties in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs and duties. Given the nature of our operations and uncertainties in, or the absence of definitive regulations or interpretations concerning, the taxation of (including value added tax of) certain aspects of our business in certain international jurisdictions in which we conduct operations or derive taxable revenue (or may be construed by such authorities as conducting operations or deriving taxable revenue), we may become subject to assessments for taxes (which may include penalties and interest) which are either unexpected, or have not been accrued for in our historical results of operations or both. Such developments, in addition to the other uncertainties and risks described above, could have adverse consequences that might result in restatement of prior period results of operations and unanticipated liquidity demands. Additional operating risks and uncertainties in operating in international markets include trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions and costs associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties, particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the U.S. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless broadband through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband Internet and VoIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. As the overall market for domestic and international long-distance and dial-up Internet services continues to decline in favor of Internet-based, wireless, and broadband communications, revenue contribution from our Traditional Services has been consequently declining. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions or do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and 31 Table of Contents offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services, including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. The rapid enhancement of VoIP and Internet technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long-distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. As a result, competition is intense to switch customers to VoIP product offerings in the U.S. and internationally. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VoIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long-distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VoIP. Our ability to retain our existing customer base and generate new customers effectively, either through our traditional network or our own VoIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VoIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others and the requirements to provide E911 services. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage, maintain and upgrade a reliable and cost-effective network infrastructure, including data hosting centers. In addition, we rely on third party equipment and service vendors to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet, data and hosting and wireless services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary aspects of our network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. If we are not able to use and protect intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets, licenses and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We are subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others and may need to litigate against others to protect our intellectual property rights. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and/or operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in any such litigation. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or our inability to maintain existing licenses, could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated and could cause service disruption to our customers. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business, and there can be no assurance that suitable alternative products would be available. We also rely on indemnification provisions from third parties to protect against claims of infringement regarding the licensed technology, which indemnification could be affected by, among other things, the financial 32 Table of Contents strength of the licensor. Furthermore, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country where we do business. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property or other licensed rights could harm our business and/or our ability to compete effectively. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, or the services of our other key personnel, or our inability to attract and retain additional key management, technical and sales personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 due to a control deficiency that existed in our internal control over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 due to a control deficiency that existed in our internal control over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss). In addition, we excluded Arbinet, which was acquired in 2011, from our assessment of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2011. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. In evaluating the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our management identified as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 a control deficiency in our controls and procedures over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 a control deficiency over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss), and management concluded in each case that the control deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting constituted a material weakness. These deficiencies represented a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting on the basis that there was more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our interim or annual financial statements could occur and would not be prevented or detected by our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management’s evaluation did not include assessing the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting at Arbinet, which was acquired during 2011 (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements), and the acquired business reflects total assets and net revenues of 8% and 21% respectively, of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011. Pursuant to SEC guidance regarding the treatment of business combinations, we are not required to include an assessment of the disclosure controls and procedures of an entity acquired during the reporting period in our evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for Primus. In accordance with our integration efforts, we are in the process of incorporating Arbinet’s operations into our “disclosure controls and procedures”. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting for income taxes as of December 31, 2010 identified a material weakness due to insufficient historical tax analysis, ineffective reconciliation procedures and undocumented key processes and controls around the tax accounting function. Management concluded that as of December 31, 2009, the controls over financial accounting for income taxes were effective. The lack of documentation supporting historical tax positions and controls procedures in place for the 2010 financial close prevented an effective knowledge transfer to the new Corporate Tax Director, who started in the position on January 3, 2011. During 2011 we undertook remediation of the income tax material weakness in several ways. The former Corporate Tax Director was consulted by our new Corporate Tax Director to complete knowledge transfer of the legacy procedures. We hired a third party tax consultants to evaluate, document and make recommendations to improve the tax reporting process and documentation of tax positions. Based on the 33 Table of Contents third party consultant recommendations and Management’s review, controls have been fully documented, knowledge transfer has been completed, and our Corporate Tax Director has implemented revised income tax controls. These controls were tested by Management in the fourth quarter of 2011 as part of the overall assessment of internal control over financial reporting, and it was determined that the prior year material weakness had been mitigated and that the controls were operating effectively. In March 2010, the Company determined that an error existed related to accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on certain inter-company balances. Specifically, this error related to activity in the third quarter 2009 resulting in the Company amending its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. This amendment restated our financial statements in order to correct a non-cash error relating to accounting for unrealized foreign currency transaction losses associated with certain inter-company balances that were permanent in nature and, therefore, should have been recorded as currency translation adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the equity section of the balance sheet. Since identifying this, we have undertaken initiatives to remediate this material weakness by (a) performing additional recalculations and analysis of the foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; (b) implementing an improved process for assessing the reasonableness of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; and (c) confirming intercompany settlements related to these balances at a transactional level. As a result of such efforts, the material weakness concerning currency transaction was downgraded to a control deficiency and will not be considered completely remediated until the new controls continue to operate for a sufficient period of time and are sufficiently tested to enable management to conclude that the controls are operating effectively. As of December 31, 2010, management concluded that there was a control deficiency concerning foreign currency transactions. Please see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”. Our management will consider the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and necessary changes to such controls. However, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in future errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Financial information for periods after July 1, 2009 will not be comparable to our financial information from periods before July 1, 2009 due to our Reorganization and the application of fresh-start accounting to our financial statements. Upon the Holding Companies’ emergence from Chapter 11 on July 1, 2009, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 852, Reorganizations, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the Reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with ASC 805, Business Combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting, our accumulated deficit ($1.06 billion at June 30, 2009) has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our future consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the Reorganization. 34 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIER SERVICES BUSINESS The members of the Exchange may not trade on the Exchange or utilize ICS’s other services due to, among other things, the lack of a liquid market, which may materially harm the ICS business. Volatility in trading volumes may have a significant adverse effect on the ICS business’ financial condition and operating results. Traditionally, communication services providers buy and sell network capacity in a direct, one-to-one process. The members may not trade on the Exchange unless it provides them with an active and liquid market. Liquidity depends on, among other things, the number of buyers and sellers and the number of competitively priced routes that actively trade on a particular communications route. ICS’s ability to increase the number of buyers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend on, among other things, the willingness and ability of prospective sellers to satisfy the quality criteria and price parameters imposed by prospective buyers and on the increased participation of competing sellers from which a buyer can choose in order to obtain favorable pricing, achieve cost savings and consistently gain access to the required quality services. ICS’s ability to increase the number of sellers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend upon the extent to which there are sufficient numbers of prospective buyers available to increase the likelihood that sellers will generate meaningful sales revenues. Alternatively, the members may not trade on the Exchange if they are not able to realize significant cost savings. This may also result in a decline in trading volume and liquidity of the Exchange. Trading volume is additionally impacted by the mix of hundreds of geographic markets traded on the Exchange. Each market has distinct characteristics, such as price and average call duration. Declines in the trading volume on the Exchange would result in lower revenues to ICS and would adversely affect ICS’s profitability because of ICS’s fixed cost structure. The members may not trade on the Exchange because such members may conclude that the Exchange will replace their existing business at lower margins. If the Exchange continues to be an active, liquid market in which lower-priced alternatives are available to buyers, sellers may conclude that further development of the Exchange will erode their profits and they may stop offering communications capacity on the Exchange. Since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing business, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange, which ultimately could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm ICS’s business. The combined company’s carrier services strategy may adversely affect the activity of members on the Exchange. Arbinet traditionally operated as an anonymous Exchange. However, some of the members may view its integration into the Primus ICS business as competitive to their businesses and may limit or eliminate their activity on the Exchange. Any such reduction could have a material adverse effect on the ICS business’ operating results. The ICS business may incur losses on customer calls that do not match the expected distribution of calls to the offered destination in carrier services. The Exchange operates using the ICS business’ defined codes so that the buyer is committed to pay the price for those codes and the seller is committing to offer termination using those codes. In the carrier services offering, ICS may compile a destination using multiple suppliers, each with their own prices for regions in that destination. However, portability of numbers between carriers at that destination may alter the price for termination. ICS is then offering to provide termination to the broader destination to its customers on the 35 Table of Contents assumption that a certain blend of calling will be achieved. If the customer sends a blend of calls that is substantially different from what is expected and all of those calls are to the more expensive parts of a destination, ICS may receive invoices that are significantly greater than expected and may limit its ability to complete a sale to the buyer that is profitable for ICS. The ICS business’ standard member enrollment cycle can be long and uncertain and may not result in revenues. The member enrollment cycle for full membership on the Exchange can be long, and may take up to 12 months or even longer from ICS’s initial contact with a communication services provider until that provider signs the membership agreement. Because ICS offers a novel method of purchasing and selling international long distance voice calls and Internet capacity, ICS must invest a substantial amount of time and resources to educate prospective members and services providers regarding the benefits of the Exchange. Factors that contribute to the length and uncertainty of the member enrollment cycle and which may reduce the likelihood that a member will purchase or sell communications traffic through the Exchange include: • the strength of pre-existing one-to-one relationships that prospective members may already have with their communication services providers; • existing incentive structures within the members’ organizations that do not reward decision-makers for savings achieved through cost-cutting; • the experience of the trial trading process by prospective members; • an aversion to new methods for buying and selling communications capacity; and • the effect of the limited credit available to prospective members and the associated impact on their spending and cash flow. ICS is exposed to the credit risk of the members not covered by its credit management programs with third parties, which could result in material losses. There have been adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets for communication services providers that have affected their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures. In some cases, the significant debt burden carried by certain communication services providers has adversely affected their ability to pay their outstanding balances with ICS and some of the members have filed for bankruptcy as a result of their debt burdens. Although these members may emerge from bankruptcy proceedings in the future, unsecured creditors, such as ICS, often receive partial or no payment toward outstanding obligations. Furthermore, because ICS is an international business, ICS may be subject to the bankruptcy laws of other nations, which may provide ICS limited or no relief. Although these losses have not been significant to date, future losses, if incurred, could be significant, particularly as a result of the impact of adverse economic conditions and the potential further tightening of credit availability on customers, and could harm the ICS business and have a material adverse effect on our overall operating results and financial condition. ICS may be unable to effectively manage the pricing risk, which could result in significant losses. In certain instances, ICS offers its customers a fixed rate for specific markets for a set duration. ICS may assume the risk on the price of the minutes and ICS may not be able to secure the prices from sellers to ensure ICS does not lose money on the minutes purchased by the buyers. ICS could incur significant losses related to having a higher cost of minutes sold in relation to the price offered to the buyer of this service. Expanding and maintaining international operations will subject ICS to additional risks and uncertainties. ICS expects to continue the expansion of its international operations, which will subject ICS to additional risks and uncertainties. ICS has established delivery points in New York City, London, Frankfurt, Miami and 36 Table of Contents Hong Kong, and ICS intends to expand its presence. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of additional risks that could have an adverse effect on ICS’s business, including: • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changing and conflicting regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • tariffs and general export restrictions; • difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • potential non-enforceability of ICS’s intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign countries; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. ICS’s inability to manage these risks effectively could result in increased costs and distractions and may adversely affect ICS’s business, financial condition and operating results. ICS’s pricing and new products and services may not be sustainable and may decline over time. As prices for international long-distance minutes continue to decline, ICS needs to charge the members less for utilization of its services. ICS may also need to reduce its prices to drive incremental minutes on the Exchange and for traditional Carrier Services offerings. As ICS has substantial fixed-price operating costs, ICS is evaluating pricing programs that maximize the volume, margin on Carrier Services and aggregate fee revenues on the Exchange. ICS continues to explore additional volume discounting programs and alternative pricing programs to drive overall Carrier Services margin and Exchange fee revenues. ICS’s Carrier Services margin and Exchange fee revenue per minute may decline in the coming quarters as ICS explores these pricing initiatives. ICS cannot be certain that its pricing programs will drive significant enough increases in volume to offset the price reduction and, therefore, ICS’s aggregate Carrier Services margin and Exchange fee revenues may decline due to these pricing programs. System failures, human error and security breaches could cause ICS to lose members and expose ICS to liability. The communications services providers that use ICS’s services depend on ICS’s ability to accurately track, rate, store and report the traffic and trades that are conducted on its platform. Software defects, system failures, natural disasters, human error and other factors could lead to inaccurate or lost information or the inability to access the services. From time to time, ICS has experienced temporary service interruptions. ICS’s systems could be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and third party security breaches. In a few instances, ICS manually inputs trading data, such as bid and ask prices, at the request of the members, which could give rise to human error and miscommunication of trading information and may result in disputes with the members. Any loss of information or the delivery of inaccurate information due to human error, miscommunication or otherwise or a breach or failure of ICS’s security mechanisms that leads to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information could lead to member dissatisfaction and possible claims against ICS for damages. 37 Table of Contents Undetected defects in ICS’s technology could adversely affect its operations. ICS’s technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called “bugs.” Although ICS regularly tests its software and systems extensively, ICS cannot ensure that its testing will detect every potential error, defect or performance problem. Any such error, defect or performance problem could have an adverse effect on ICS’s operations. Users of ICS’s services may be particularly sensitive to any defects, errors or performance problems in ICS’s systems because a failure of ICS’s systems to monitor transactions accurately could adversely affect their own operations. If ICS does not adequately maintain the members’ and customers’ confidential information, Arbinet could be subject to legal liability and its reputation could be harmed. Any breach of security relating to confidential information of the members or customers could result in legal liability to ICS and a reduction in use of the Carrier Services or Exchange or cancellation of Arbinet’s services, any of which could materially harm ICS’s business. ICS’s personnel often receive highly confidential information from buyers and sellers that is stored in ICS’s files and on its systems. Similarly, ICS receives sensitive pricing information that has historically been maintained as a matter of confidence within buyer and seller organizations. ICS currently has practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of the members’ and customers’ information. However, ICS’s practices, policies and procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or unintentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that ICS is obligated to keep confidential. ICS may not be successful in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, so its exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of the members or customers may grow as ICS expands its business and increases the amount of information that it possesses. If ICS fails to adequately maintain the members’ or customers’ confidential information, some of them could end their business relationships with ICS and ICS could be subject to legal liability. ICS may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications services industry. The communications services industry is subject to constant and rapid technological changes. ICS cannot predict the effect of technological changes on its business. New services and technologies may be superior to ICS’s services and technologies, or may render ICS’s services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, ICS must adapt to and keep pace with rapidly changing technologies by continually improving, expanding and developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. ICS’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to respond to technological advances, meet the evolving needs of members and customers and conform to emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis, if implemented. ICS will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand its services to keep pace with changing technologies. Failure to do so may materially harm ICS’s business. Any failure of ICS’s physical infrastructure could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce its revenue and harm its business reputation and financial results. ICS’s business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. ICS must protect its infrastructure and any colocated equipment of the members located in ICS’s exchange delivery points, or EDPs. ICS’s EDPs and the services ICS provides are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; 38 Table of Contents • water damage; • power loss; and • terrorism, sabotage and vandalism. Problems at one or more of ICS’s EDPs, whether or not within ICS’s control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to terminate voice calls or supply Internet capacity could reduce the confidence of the members and customers and could consequently impair ICS’s ability to obtain and retain members and customers, which would adversely affect both ICS’s ability to generate revenues and its operating results. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LIQUIDITY NEEDS, INDEBTEDNESS AND SECURITIES We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such disposition may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. We may not be able to repurchase the 10% Notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events specified in the indenture governing our 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 (“10% Notes”), our subsidiary that issued the 10% Notes will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding 10% Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus, without duplication, accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that the issuer will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of all 10% Notes delivered by holders seeking to exercise their repurchase rights, particularly as that change of control may trigger a similar repurchase requirement for, or result in an event of a default under or the acceleration of, other indebtedness (or the instruments governing such indebtedness). Moreover, restrictions in the instruments governing our future indebtedness may not allow such repurchases. Any failure by the issuer to repurchase the 10% Notes upon a change of control would result in an event of default under the indenture and may also constitute a cross-default on other indebtedness (or the instruments governing such indebtedness) existing at that time. The indenture governing our 10% Notes contains significant operating and financial restrictions which may limit our ability and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to operate their businesses. The indenture governing our 10% Notes contains significant operating and financial restrictions on Group and its restricted subsidiaries. These restrictions limit the ability of Group and its restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; 39 Table of Contents • create liens on certain assets to secure debt; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions; • purchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain investments; • transfer or sell assets; • agree to restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us or the issuer; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or the issuer’s assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit the ability of Group and its restricted subsidiaries to finance their future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. Group and its restricted subsidiaries may be required to take action to reduce their debt or act in a manner contrary to their business objectives to satisfy these covenants. Events beyond the control of Group and its restricted subsidiaries, including changes in economic and business conditions in the markets in which they operate, may affect their ability to do so. Group and its restricted subsidiaries may not be able to satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants in the indenture could result in a default under such indenture, which could lead to the debt under the 10% Notes becoming immediately due and payable and foreclosure on our assets that secure our obligations with respect to the 10% Notes. A default under the indenture could, in turn, result in a default under other debt instruments and result in other creditors accelerating the payment of other obligations and foreclosing on assets securing such obligations, if any. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial conditions and liquidity. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had $245.8 million of long-term obligations. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it: • limits our ability to borrow additional funds; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limits our ability to make strategic acquisitions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Interest costs related to our debt are substantial and, as a result, the demands on our cash resources are significant. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future results of operations and ability to generate cash. Our future results of operations are, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may incur additional debt in the future, including debt secured by the collateral that secures our 10% Notes, as well as other assets that do not secure such notes. Although the indenture governing our 10% Notes 40 Table of Contents contains, and future indebtedness documents may contain, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, those restrictions are, or may be, subject to a number of exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with those restrictions could be substantial. In addition, if we are able to designate some of the restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the 10% Notes as unrestricted subsidiaries, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. If we incur any additional secured debt that ranks equally with the 10% Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the 10% Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceedings. Adding new debt to current debt levels could intensify the related risks that we now face. There are no assurances that our common stock will remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On June 23, 2011, Group began to trade its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol “PTGI.” At that time, trading of its common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol “PMUG” ceased. In order to maintain the listing of Group’s common stock on NYSE, we must comply with listing requirements with respect to, among other things, corporate governance, communications with shareholders and the trading price of Group’s common stock. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance with NYSE listing standards, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. If we fail to comply with these listing standards, NYSE could delist Group’s common stock. In the event of a delisting of Group’s common stock from NYSE, we cannot assure you that our common stock would be listed on an alternate stock exchange. Moreover, a delisting of Group’s common stock from NYSE could materially and adversely affect, among other things, the liquidity of Group’s common stock, the market price of Group’s common stock, and our access to capital markets. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION We are subject to constantly changing regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, including the imposition of fees and taxes, the potential adverse effects of which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that domestic, foreign or international regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, growth and financial performance. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Many regulatory actions are underway or are being contemplated by governmental agencies, including the ongoing FCC initiative to promote expanded broadband services in the United States. It is impossible to predict at this time what specific rules or requirements the FCC will propose or adopt, or how any such rules or requirements would affect our business or financial results. The Federal Communications Commission or Congress may revise how companies like us contribute to certain federal programs that could increase our costs, reduce our profitability, or make our services less competitive in the communications marketplace. In the U.S., the Communications Act and associated FCC regulations require that every provider of interstate telecommunications contribute, on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, to federal universal service mechanisms established by the FCC, which affects our cost of providing services. At present, these contributions are calculated based on contributors’ interstate and international revenue derived from U.S. end 41 Table of Contents users for telecommunications or telecommunications services, as those terms are defined under FCC regulations. The FCC has announced its intention to propose new rules regarding universal service contribution during 2012. These new proposals would likely affect most of our competitors, but not all of our competitors would be affected in the same way or to the same degree as we would be. It is impossible to predict the impact of these new proposals, if adopted, on our operations and financial results. We cannot predict whether the FCC will adopt any particular contribution methodology, nor can we predict the potential impact on our business at this time. A revised contribution methodology could increase our contribution obligation, including increasing our contribution disproportionately compared to some of our competitors. In such event, we may need to either raise the total amount of our consumer’s bills, potentially making us less competitive with other providers of communications services, or reduce our profit margins. In the United States and Canada, there is increasing regulation of VoIP service offerings. Increased regulation may increase our costs, reduce our profit margins, or make our services less competitive in the communications marketplace. Increasingly, laws, regulations or rulings that apply to traditional telephone services are being extended to commerce and communications services that utilize Internet Protocol, including VoIP. The increasing growth of the VoIP market and popularity of VoIP products and services heighten the risk that governmental agencies will continue to increase the level of regulation applied to VoIP and the Internet. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial decisions or regulations concerning Internet Protocol enabled products and services may have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulation may be targeted towards, among other things, fees, charges, surcharges, and taxation of VoIP services, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, filing requirements, consumer protection, public safety issues like E911, CALEA, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services, any of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. The rules that the FCC has already extended to interconnected VoIP providers include: • Rules with respect to the use of CPNI requiring VoIP providers to adhere to particular customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of pre-defined limits and when using CPNI for marketing purposes, and requiring VoIP providers to take certain steps to verify a customer’s identity before releasing any CPNI over the telephone or the Internet, and to report unauthorized disclosures of CPNI. • In April 2010, the FCC adopted a Notice of Inquiry regarding the possible establishment of a voluntary “cyber security” certification program. At present it is not possible to predict whether any new formal or informal requirements will arise from this proceeding or how any such requirements might affect our business. • The disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act, which have been interpreted by the FCC to require interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to the telecommunications relay services fund and offer 711 abbreviated dialing access to relay services, and to ensure that VoIP services are accessible to persons with disabilities, if reasonably achievable. In August 2010, the FCC adopted a Further Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with respect to hearing aid compatibility requirements applicable to various services. We cannot predict at this time what new requirements the FCC will establish, if any, or how any such new requirements may affect us. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to configure VoIP networks in a manner that facilitates lawful surveillance under CALEA. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to permit customers to retain their assigned telephone numbers when changing carriers including newly established requirements to process customer carrier changes on an expedited basis. 42 Table of Contents • Rules requiring VoIP providers to provide access to E911 services on terms generally similar to those provided by traditional landline carriers. • In April 2010, the FCC adopted a Notice of Inquiry regarding the survivability of broadband infrastructure, including in the case of damage due to natural or human-caused disasters or public emergencies. • In December 2010, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry regarding “Next Generation 911” service. It is uncertain whether the FCC will adopt specific requirements arising from these proceedings or, if it does, how and whether any such requirements will affect us. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to pay regulatory fees based on reported interstate and international revenues, including universal service fees. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to provide notice to customers of discontinuance of service in some circumstances. • In a May 2011 rulemaking, the FCC proposed to extend outage reporting requirements to interconnected VoIP and broadband service providers. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, nor can we predict its potential impact on our business. • In July 2011, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, seeking comment on proposed rules designed to assist consumers in detecting and preventing the placement of unauthorized charges on their telephone bills, an unlawful practice commonly referred to as “cramming.” The FCC sought comment on whether these proposed rules or similar requirements should apply to providers of interconnected VoIP service. Further, the FCC sought comment on whether any of its ‘Truth-in-Billing’ rules or similar requirements should apply to interconnected VoIP providers in order to protect consumers from cramming. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, nor can we predict its potential impact on our business. • In November 2011, the FCC released an Order requiring VoIP providers to pay intercarrier compensation for the exchange of PSTN-VoIP traffic, the reduction of default payment rates, and the provision of signaling information with VoIP calls. The Order broadly reforms the system of default rates that apply to payments between regulated service providers going forward, but does not resolve past disputes. To the extent that another provider were to assert that the traffic we exchange with them is subject to higher levels of compensation than we, or the third parties terminating our traffic to the PSTN, pay today (if any), our termination costs could initially increase, but ultimately will be reduced as the intercarrier compensation system transitions to bill-and-keep. We cannot predict the full impact of the FCC’s Order at this time. In Canada the CRTC has extended rules to interconnected VoIP providers that are similar to certain of those described above for the U.S., which rules are also subject to change from time to time. In addition, the CRTC is currently conducting public proceedings on whether to recover its operating fees from all telecommunications service providers, including resellers such as us, rather than only from Canadian carriers; and on whether and how to redefine the Basic Service Objectives, for whose subsidization we and other telecom service providers are required to contribute a proportion of our Canadian telecom service revenues. We may become subject to increased obligations with regard to accessibility obligations for people with disabilities and more of our service offerings may become subject to disabilities access obligations. In October 2011, the FCC ruled that VoIP services are subject to Sections 255 and 716 of the Act regarding requirements to ensure that people with disabilities have access to certain services. As such, VoIP providers and other providers of advanced communications services (and manufacturers of equipment used for such services) must ensure that their services and products are accessible to people with disabilities, unless it is not achievable to do so. The FCC also established recordkeeping, certification, and enforcement provisions related to the disability access provisions it adopted. If and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC’s disability access requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties, cease and desist orders 43 Table of Contents prohibiting us from providing service on the federal and state levels or any combination of the foregoing. The FCC’s review of disability access related requirements remains ongoing, and at this time, we cannot predict whether we will be subject to additional accessibility requirements. Proposed future U.S. federal income tax legislation could impact the Company’s effective tax rate. Future tax legislation could substantially modify the rules governing the U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Potential changes include, but are not limited to: (1) limitations on the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings; (2) limitations on the ability to claim and utilize foreign tax credits; and (3) deferral of various tax deductions until non-U.S. earnings are repatriated to the U.S. If legislation on any of these items are enacted into law they could materially impact our effective tax rate. We may be subject to liabilities for past taxes, surcharges, fees, penalties and interest. Prior to 2010, the Company determined that with limited exceptions there was no requirement to bill, collect and remit transaction based state or local taxes (such as sales and use, excise, and utility user taxes), fees or surcharges on charges to our VoIP service customers. During 2010, we made a modification to the language in our customer agreements, and we determined that the Company may be required to bill, collect and remit certain transaction based taxes. The Company began to bill such taxes in 2010. In certain jurisdictions, there exists an immaterial amount of billed and collected taxes that have not been remitted, which the Company is in the process of remitting. In 2010, the FCC ruled that states may require interconnected VoIP service providers to contribute to state Universal Service Funds, and expressly deferred ruling on whether such providers must do so retroactively. We are continuing to assess the applicability of this ruling to our business and developing compliance plans. In limited jurisdictions, we determined we are required to collect such taxes and are currently billing and collecting these taxes from our customers. To the extent that we have collected taxes and fees and have not yet remitted such taxes and fees, we may be subject to fines and penalties and other claims. To the extent that we have not been collecting taxes and fees, we may be subject to retroactive liability for VoIP-specific taxes, fees and surcharges and, potentially, penalties and interest in a number of states, which may have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our VoIP business. Other international governmental regulation could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive and may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. We cannot make assurances that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in the future. International regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include: • ongoing regulatory proceedings in Australia contested by Telstra which has an incentive to increase prices and charges and to deny or impede access to essential facilities and services needed by us to compete; • the ultimate outcome with the NBN, which could be subject to further review by the current or next incoming government, which could have impact on (a) we will have access to the NBN; and (b) the duration for which the copper wire based last mile infrastructure we use to furnish broadband services using our DSLAM network infrastructure will be continued; • general changes in access charges and contribution payments could adversely affect our cost of providing long-distance, wireless, broadband, VoIP, local and other services; and • regulatory proceedings in Canada determining whether and the extent to which regulation should mandate access to networks and interconnection including intra-exchange transport services which we use to interconnect our DSLAM colocation sites and high speed access to residential and business services. 44 Table of Contents Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be exposed to significant liability resulting from our noncompliance with FCC orders regarding E911 services. As of November 2005, FCC rules require VoIP providers interconnected to the public switched telephone network to provide E911 service in a manner similar to traditional wireline carriers. Like many interconnected VoIP providers, Lingo, Inc. (Lingo), a subsidiary of ours which sells such services, was able to meet this deadline for some but not all of its customers. We sought a waiver from the FCC asking for additional time to complete deploying our E911 service. The FCC has not yet addressed our waiver petition. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of our Lingo customers were equipped with E911 service as required by the FCC’s rules. If and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC order regarding E911 services we may be subject to fines, penalties and cease and desist orders prohibiting Lingo from providing service on the federal and state levels or any combination of the foregoing. The FCC rules also require interconnected VoIP providers to distribute stickers and labels informing customers of the limitations on their emergency services as compared with traditional landline E911 service, as well as to notify and obtain affirmative acknowledgement from customers that they are aware of those limitations. The FCC’s Enforcement Bureau released an order providing that the Enforcement Bureau will not pursue enforcement against interconnected VoIP providers that have received affirmative acknowledgement from at least 90% of their subscribers. We have received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers, and, therefore, believe that we have effectively satisfied this requirement. We may be exposed to significant liability based on the differences between our E911 services and those delivered by traditional providers of telephony services. Lingo’s current E911 services, like those offered by other providers of VoIP services, are more limited than the 911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of emergency assistance. Despite the fact that we have notified our customers and received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers that they understand the differences between the access Lingo provides to emergency services as compared to those available through traditional wireline telephony providers, affected parties may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of certain failures to comply with the FCC mandated E911 service for interconnected VoIP providers. Our resulting liability could be significant. Since 2008, interconnected VoIP providers and others involved in handling 911 calls have been afforded the same liability protections as mobile or wired telephone service providers when handling 911 calls. However, the applicability of the liability protection to 911 calling services that do not conform to the FCC’s VoIP E911 rules is unclear. As such, to the extent our services do not comply with the FCC’s VoIP E911 requirements we may still face significant and material liability due to failures of our E911 service to function properly. We may be similarly exposed to liability in Canada in connection with emergency services associated with our VoIP services. A description of our regulatory obligations associated with our VoIP services in Canada is set forth under “Government Regulation—Canada.” The FCC may impose additional E911 obligations on VoIP providers, like us, that may increase our cost, decrease our profits, or make our services less competitive with other providers of calling services. The FCC is considering a number of changes regarding the applicability of E911 requirements to VoIP providers like us and has sought comment on whether nomadic interconnected VoIP providers should be required to offer automatic location information of their users without customers providing location information. The FCC also sought comment on (i) how far it can extend E911 obligations to other types of companies including device 45 Table of Contents manufacturers, software developers and others, (ii) whether to apply the FCC’s 911 rules to “outbound-only” interconnected VoIP services (i.e., services that support outbound calls to the PSTN but not inbound voice calling from the PSTN); (iii) whether to develop a framework for ensuring that all covered VoIP providers can provide automatic location information for VoIP 911 calls; (iv) whether to revise the FCC’s definition of interconnected VoIP service; and (v) whether any amendment of the definition of interconnected VoIP service should be limited to 911 purposes, or should apply more broadly to other contexts. The FCC is also considering whether E911 obligations should apply to other IP-enabled services. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings nor can we predict their potential impact on our business. Our VoIP E911 services are more limited than the 911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of emergency assistance. Uncertainty regarding the rates we pay to interconnected telecommunications carriers in the U.S. may affect our profitability and increase the retail price of our service. In November 2011,the FCC adopted a major reform of the methodology that regulated telecommunications carriers use to determine the appropriate payments for the exchange of traffic that is necessary to complete long-distance telephone calls to the traditional telephone network. Under the new rules, LECs generally are prohibited from increasing their rates for termination and origination of long-distance calls (except for the origination charges of smaller telephone companies serving less than 2% of all telephone lines in the U.S.). Starting July 1, 2012, all LECs will be required to reduce their charges for originating and terminating in-state toll calls to the extent they are higher than the comparable charges for interstate calls, and after July 1, 2013, the charges for in-state toll calls must be no higher than those for interstate calls. Starting July 1, 2014, LECs will be required to further reduce the rates for terminating long-distance calls (only) in a series of steps until (in most cases) the rates are reduced to zero effective July 1, 2018. Charges for outgoing calls originated by U.S. customers are not required to be reduced in this latter stage, although the FCC is conducting a further rulemaking proceeding in which it will consider possible reductions to originating charges. The FCC’s decision is subject to petitions for reconsideration as well as multiple petitions for judicial review, which could result in changes in either the transition schedule or the ultimate elimination of terminating charges. Because of the continuing proceedings both at the FCC and in the courts, we face ongoing uncertainty as to our future costs for both originating and terminating telephone calls in the U.S. Further, we face uncertainty as to whether and how our competitors will adjust their retail prices in response to changes in the cost of call termination, which may affect our own pricing and profit margins. We may not be able to comply with recent FCC requirements regarding the transfer of telephone numbers to other providers when customers change providers. In 2008, the FCC clarified that interconnected VoIP providers, such as us, are subject to its rules regarding transferring the telephone numbers of customers that choose to obtain service from other providers, including both interconnected VoIP providers and traditional carriers. In 2009, the FCC released an order that reduces the amount of time within which voice service providers must transfer a telephone number to a new provider. We, along with other VoIP providers, are now required to transfer telephone numbers on the shortened timeframe. We rely on our underlying, third party carriers to comply with these rules. Our underlying, third party carriers are currently in compliance with the FCC’s rules and we expect that they will remain in compliance. But should our underlying carriers fail to comply with the FCC rules, we may be subject to fines, penalties, or cease and desist orders. States in the U.S. may subject our service to state USF obligations. Several states have attempted to require nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state USFs. One state, Nebraska, engaged in litigation with a provider of interconnected VoIP services similar to us. On July 16, 2009, Kansas and Nebraska filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaratory ruling that states are 46 Table of Contents not preempted from requiring nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state USFs. The petition also sought a retroactive rule finding that states have been able to collect such contributions for an uncertain time period. On November 5, 2010, the FCC released an order granting the petition in part, clarifying that on a prospective basis states may extend USF contribution requirements to cover intrastate revenues of nomadic VoIP providers, so long as the state’s particular requirements do not conflict with federal law or policies. We cannot predict which states may seek to impose such contributions on us. Decisions by states to collect state USF contributions may result in increased state regulation of our service and increased costs associated with our services, which may lead to either lower profits or a less competitively priced service. Typically, state USF fees would be passed on to consumers. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of individual state decisions or the impact such decisions might have on our business. We may become subject to state regulation for certain service offerings. A number of states have adopted the position that offerings by VoIP companies like us are subject to state regulation. These states generally base their jurisdiction to regulate such offerings based on whether a VoIP company is able to determine the beginning and end points of communications and whether such communications occur entirely within the boundaries of the respective state. We believe that the FCC has preempted states from regulating VoIP offerings. We cannot predict how this issue will be resolved nor its impact on our business at this time but we could be subject to increased costs, reduced profitability, and fines or penalties. Access to the Internet is required by us and our users in order to offer our services. If Internet access providers or other companies involved in handling Internet traffic are able to block, degrade or charge us so that we cannot offer quality services, we could incur additional costs or lose customers. Our service offerings require that customers have access to broadband Internet access at a sufficient bandwidth in order to support call quality and other related services. We and our customers rely on service providers that have significant market power in the broadband Internet access marketplace including incumbent providers of wireline telephone services, cable companies and wireless companies. It is possible that some of these providers could take measures to degrade or disrupt our services, or increase the cost to us or our users to obtain access to certain levels of bandwidth necessary to make our service offerings. On December 23, 2010, the FCC adopted an order that imposes “network neutrality” rules on providers of fixed and wireless broadband Internet access services, with wireless providers subject to a more limited set of rules. Among other things, the rules: (1) require providers of consumer broadband Internet access to publicly disclose their network management practices and the performance and commercial terms of their broadband Internet access services; (2) prevent broadband Internet access providers from blocking lawful content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices, subject to reasonable network management; and (3) prevent broadband Internet access providers from unreasonably discriminating in the transmission of lawful network traffic over a consumer’s broadband Internet access service. While the substance of the rules and the process used by the FCC in adopting the rules differs from the FCC’s previous Internet policy principles that were called into question by the D.C. Circuit, questions remain concerning the FCC’s ability to adopt rules governing the conduct of fixed and wireless broadband Internet access providers. The FCC’s rules became effective on November 20, 2011. Several parties have appealed these rules to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. We cannot predict to what extent these or any other appeals may succeed, nor can we predict what impact these rules may have on our business at this time. If an Internet access provider were to interfere with access to our products and services, such actions could result in a loss of existing users and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, thereby harming our revenue and growth. 47 Table of Contents We are subject to the requirements of the Federal Trade Commission’s new “Red Flag” identity theft rules. We must comply with Section 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (“FACTA”) and rules of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that require “creditors” to develop and effectuate written internal programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with their accounts. The rules became effective on January 1, 2011, and we may be deemed to be a “creditor” as defined in the FACTA to the extent that we use consumer reports in connection with providing service to customers, or provide information to debt collectors or consumer reporting agencies. We are taking steps to ensure compliance with the FTC’s rules, but if and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the rules we may be subject to fines, penalties, compliance orders or any combination of the foregoing. Uncertainty regarding the rates we pay to interconnected telecommunications carriers in the U.S. may affect our profitability and the retail price of our service. In November 2011, after a proceeding spanning a number of years, the FCC adopted a major reform of the methodology that regulated telecommunications carriers use to determine payments for the exchange of traffic to complete long-distance telephone calls over the traditional local telephone network. Under the new rules, LECs generally are prohibited from increasing their rates for termination and origination of long-distance calls (except for the origination charges of smaller telephone companies serving less than 2% of all telephone lines in the U.S.). Starting July 1, 2012, all LECs will be required to reduce their charges for originating and terminating in-state toll calls to the extent they are higher than the comparable charges for interstate calls, and after July 1, 2013, the charges for in-state toll calls must be no higher than those for interstate calls. Starting July 1, 2014, LECs will be required to further reduce the rates for terminating long-distance calls (only) in a series of steps until (in most cases) the rates are reduced to zero effective July 1, 2018. Charges for outgoing calls originated by U.S. customers are not required to be reduced in this latter stage, although the FCC is conducting a further rulemaking proceeding in which it will consider possible reductions to originating charges. The FCC’s decision is subject to petitions for reconsideration as well as multiple petitions for judicial review, which could result in changes in either the transition schedule or the ultimate elimination of terminating charges. Because of the continuing proceedings both at the FCC and in the courts, we face ongoing uncertainty as to our future costs for both originating and terminating telephone calls in the U.S. Further, we face uncertainty as to whether and how our competitors will adjust their retail prices in response to changes in the cost of call termination, which may affect our own pricing and profit margins. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 