ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2006, due to the material weaknesses that existed in our internal control over accounting for income taxes. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. In performing an internal control assessment at the end of 2006, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For a discussion of the material weaknesses identified by our management, see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2006. To address the material weakness, we performed additional analysis and other post-closing procedures in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These additional procedures were costly, time consuming and required us to dedicate a significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Performing these additional procedures in the future, could cause delays in the filing of our periodic and annual reports to the SEC. The delay in the filing of our periodic and annual reports could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: (1) civil litigation or an investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; (2) covenant defaults, and potentially events of default, under our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting from our failure to timely file our financial statements; (3) negative publicity; or (4) the loss or impairment of investor confidence in our Company. If competitive pressures continue or intensify and/or the success of our new products is not adequate in amount or timing to offset the decline in results from our legacy businesses, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations. There are substantial risks and uncertainties in our future operating results, particularly as aggressive pricing and bundling strategies by certain incumbent carriers and ILECs have intensified competitive pressures in the markets where we operate, and/or if we have insufficient financial resources to market our services. The aggregate anticipated margin contribution from our new products may not be adequate in amount or timing to offset the declines in margin from our legacy long distance voice and dial-up ISP business. In addition, regulatory decisions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and outlook. See also information under “Item 2—MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Short- and Long-Term Liquidity Considerations and Risks” and in these Risk Factors. If adverse events referenced or described herein or therein were to occur, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations and could, among other things, be required to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or other similar laws in other countries. Our high level of debt and liquidity needs may adversely affect our financial and operating flexibility. We currently have substantial indebtedness and anticipate that we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level and/or terms of our indebtedness (1) could make it difficult for us to make required payments of principal and interest on our outstanding debt; (2) could limit our ability to obtain any 25 Table of Contents necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; (3) requires that a substantial portion of our cash flow, if any, be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness and other obligations and, accordingly, such cash flow will not be available for use in our business; (4) could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; (5) results in our being more highly leveraged than many of our competitors, which places us at a competitive disadvantage; (6) will make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and (7) could limit our ability to sell assets partially or fund our operations due to covenant restrictions. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could make it more difficult to sell our common stock. Effective at the open of trading on July 28, 2006, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Since this time, our common stock has traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market, both through listings on the OTC Bulletin Board and in the National Quotation Bureau “Pink Sheets,” but our common stock is not currently listed or quoted on any recognized national or regional securities exchange or market. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to sell or obtain quotations as to the price of our common stock. Delisting could adversely affect investors’ perception, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock. Delisting will also make it more difficult, time consuming and expensive for us to raise capital through sales of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. Given our limited experience in delivering our new products and in providing bundled local, wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, data and VOIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand these parts of our business. During the third quarter of 2004 we accelerated initiatives to become an integrated wireline, wireless and broadband service provider in order to counter competitive pricing pressures initiated by large incumbent providers in certain of the principal markets where we operate and to stem the loss of certain of our wireline and dial-up ISP customers to our competitors’ bundled wireless, wireline and broadband service offerings. Our experience in providing these new products in certain markets and in providing these bundled service offerings is limited. Our primary competitors include incumbent telecommunications providers, cable companies and other ISPs that have a significant national or international presence. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. We also expect that we will experience increased competition from traditional telecommunications carriers and cable companies and other new entrants that expand into the market for broadband, VOIP, Internet services and traditional voice services, and regulatory developments may impair our ability to compete. Therefore, future operations involving these individual or bundled services may not succeed in this new competitive environment, and we may not be able to expand successfully; may experience margin pressure; may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; may have limited resources to develop and to market the new services; and have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will reverse recent revenue declines or maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. We may be exposed to significant liability resulting from our noncompliance with FCC directives regarding enhanced 911 (E911) services. In June 2005, the FCC adopted new rules requiring VOIP providers interconnected to the public switched telephone network (PSTN) to provide E911 service in a manner similar to traditional wireline carriers by November 2005. LINGO, a subsidiary of ours which sells VOIP services, was unable to meet this deadline for all of its customers. We sought a waiver from the FCC asking for additional time to complete deploying our E911 service, and the FCC has not yet addressed our waiver petition. As of December 20, 2006, approximately 16% of our LINGO customers were without E911 service. We also participated in a legal challenge to these rules, but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied our petition for review of the FCC’s rules on December 15, 2006. 26 Table of Contents LINGO’s current services are more limited than the E911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need as required by the FCC. We have notified our customers of the differences between our Emergency Calling Service and E911 services and those available through traditional telephony providers and have received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers. Nevertheless, injured customers may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of our failure to comply with the FCC mandated E911 service. Our resulting liability could be significant. In addition, if and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC order regarding E911 services we may be subject to fines or penalties or injunctions prohibiting LINGO from providing service in some markets. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The long distance telecommunications, Internet, broadband, DSL, data and wireless industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger long distance, Internet access, broadband, DSL and wireless business participants. Prices in the long distance industry have continued to decline in recent years, and as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. Our competitors in its core markets include, among others: AT&T, the regional bell operating companies (RBOCs) and the major wireless carriers in the United States; Telstra, SingTel Optus and Telecom New Zealand in Australia; Telus, BCE, Allstream (formerly AT&T Canada) and the major wireless and cable companies in Canada; and BT, Cable & Wireless United Kingdom, Colt Telecom, Energis and the major wireless carriers in the United Kingdom. Customers frequently change long distance, wireless and broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VOIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, generally, customers can switch carriers and service offerings at any time. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or even increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences are experienced in markets outside the United States, competition in non-United States markets is becoming similar to the intense competition in the United States. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers, and lower debt leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. Several long distance carriers in the United States, Canada and Australia and the major wireless carriers and cable companies, have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates for calls. This strategy of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. Companies emerging out of bankruptcy might benefit from a lower cost structure and might apply pricing pressure within the industry to gain market share. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. 27 Table of Contents Our repositioning in the marketplace places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our repositioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this change effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, on our support, sales and marketing and administrative resources and on our network infrastructure. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses which may hinder our ability to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $(1,088.0) million. We incurred net losses of $(34.6) million in 2002, $(10.6) million in 2004, $(154.4) million in 2005, and $(238.0) million in 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we recognized net income of $54.8 million, of which $39.4 million is the positive impact of foreign currency transaction gains. We cannot assure you that we will recognize net income, or reverse recent net revenue declines in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business. We strive to increase the volume of voice and data traffic that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. We may pursue acquisitions in the future to further our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists, a key element of our historical growth strategy, involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition does not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in migrating the customer base and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities, and there can be no assurance that successful integration will occur in light of these factors. We experience intense domestic and international competition which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The local and long distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VOIP and wireless industries are intensely competitive with relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and with numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, cable television companies, who would offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television, and electric power utilities who would offer voice and broadband Internet access. For example, the United States and many other countries have committed to open their 28 Table of Contents telecommunications markets to competition pursuant to an agreement under the World Trade Organization which began on January 1, 1998. Further, in the United States, as certain conditions have been met under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the RBOCs have been allowed to enter the long distance market, and other long distance carriers have been allowed to enter the local telephone services market (although recent judicial and regulatory developments have diminished the attractiveness of this opportunity), and many entities, including cable television companies and utilities, have been allowed to enter both the local service and long distance telecommunications markets. Moreover, the rapid enhancement of VOIP technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VOIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VOIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VOIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the United States and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VOIP initiatives. Our ability effectively to retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VOIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VOIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others and the requirements to provide E911 services. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based long distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, as of December 31, 2006, derived 81% of our net revenues by providing services outside of the United States. In international markets, we are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers are likely to control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; generally offer a wider range of product and services; and have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and more correspondent agreements. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to our switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate; obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the United States. 29 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from sales and operations outside the United States. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States dollar (USD). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the United States, and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/AUD, USD/CAD, USD/British pound (GBP), and USD/Euro (EUR). See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the United States, strengthening or weakening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions and do not currently contemplate engaging in hedging transactions to mitigate foreign exchange risks. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulated other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. In 2002, agreements with certain subsidiaries were put in place for repayment of a portion of the investments and advances made to those subsidiaries. As we anticipate repayment in the foreseeable future of these amounts, we recognize the unrealized gains and losses in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on the consolidated statements of operations, and depending upon changes in future currency rates, such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. If we do not adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market conditions and if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage and maintain a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet and wireless services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. 30 Table of Contents If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although our existing intellectual property are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses and, individually, their costs and terms are not material to our business, the loss of, or our inability to maintain existing licenses, could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of K. Paul Singh, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or the services of our other key personnel, or our inability to attract and retain additional key management, technical and sales personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon us. We are subject to potential adverse effects of regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include (1) United States common carrier requirements not to discriminate unreasonably among customers and to charge just and reasonable rates; (2) general uncertainty regarding the future regulatory classification of and taxation of VOIP telephony, the need to provide emergency calling services in a manner required by the FCC that is not yet available commercially on a nation-wide basis and the ability to access broadband networks owned and operated by others; if regulators decide that VOIP is a regulated telecommunications service, our VOIP services may be subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and fees, we may be obligated to pay carriers additional interconnection fees and operating costs may increase; (3) general changes in access charges, universal service and regulatory fee payments would affect our cost of providing long distance services; (4) the ultimate regulatory resolution regarding efforts by Telstra in Australia to increase prices and charges and to build a new broadband network that could adversely impact our current DSL network; and (5) general changes in access charges and contribution payments could adversely affect our cost of providing long distance, wireless, broadband, VOIP, local and other services. Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations and prospects. 31 Table of Contents Natural disasters may affect the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Many of the geographic areas where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Hurricanes, tropical storms and other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on the business by damaging the network facilities or curtailing voice or data traffic as a result of the effects of such events, such as destruction of homes and businesses. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. We are a United States-based corporation with significant international operations. Terrorist attacks, including apparent action against companies operating abroad, may negatively affect our operations. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks that affect our employees, network facilities or support systems, either in the United States or in any of the other countries in which we operate. Certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others are not likely to be covered by our insurance. Terrorist attacks may directly impact our business operations through damage or harm to our employees, network facilities or support systems, increased security costs or the general curtailment of voice or data traffic. Any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to our business and the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. A small group of our stockholders could exercise influence over our affairs. As of February 28, 2007, funds affiliated with American International Group, Incorporated (AIG Entities) beneficially owned 15% of our outstanding common stock, which was acquired through the conversion of their Series C Preferred Stock. As a result of such share ownership, these holders can exercise influence over our affairs through the provisions of a certain Governance Agreement between such holders and us, dated November 4, 2003, that provide for their right to nominate a candidate for election by our stockholders to the board of directors and nominate one non-voting board observer, in each case subject to the maintenance of certain minimum ownership levels of our common stock and the board’s right to exercise its fiduciary duties. In addition, these holders’ significant ownership levels could have an influence on: amendments to our certificate of incorporation; other fundamental corporate transactions such as mergers and asset sales; and the general direction of our business and affairs. Also, the applicable triggering provisions of our rights agreement with StockTrans, Inc., as Rights Agent, dated December 23, 1998 (as amended, the “Rights Agreement”) contain exceptions with respect to the acquisition of beneficial ownership of our shares by such holders and the other former holders of Series C Preferred Stock. As a result, such holders could gain additional control over our affairs without triggering the provisions of the Rights Agreement. Finally, other stockholders that have acquired or will acquire a significant portion of our common stock such as three shareholders that have acquired 30.9 million shares, in aggregate, as of December 31, 2006, could potentially exercise influence over our affairs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 