Risk Factors - We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so.” The manufacture of our products is an exacting and complex process, and if we or one of our materials suppliers encounter problems manufacturing our products, our business could suffer. The FDA and foreign regulators require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with cGMP or similar requirements that the FDA or foreign regulators establish. We or our materials suppliers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing product production and shipment delays or a situation where we or the supplier may not be able to maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP requirements, or those of foreign regulators, necessary to continue manufacturing our drug substance. Any failure to comply with cGMP requirements or other FDA or foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to market and develop our products. Our current facility has not been audited by the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with FDA or foreign regulatory manufacturing requirements for our current facility or any future facility that we may establish, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third parties for final processing of our prGCD candidate, which exposes us to a number of risks that may delay development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs. We have no experience in the final filling and freeze drying steps of the drug manufacturing process. We have entered into a contract with Teva to perform the final filling and freeze drying steps for our prGCD drug candidate in connection with our clinical trials. If any of our drug candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on Teva or other third-party contractors to perform the final manufacturing steps for our drugs on a commercial scale. We may be unable to identify 19 manufacturers and replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer, including us, and we or any such third party manufacturer might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drug products in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs. If we engage any contract manufacturers, such manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply its clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute its products. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of prGCD and our other potential drug candidates by the FDA, or the commercialization of prGCD and our other drug candidates or result in higher costs or otherwise deprive us of potential product revenues. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. While we intend to have a role in the commercialization of our products, we do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to develop global sales and marketing capabilities for all of the products we develop. Our future revenues depend, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies having sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. We intend to pursue additional collaborative arrangements regarding the sales and marketing of our products; however, we might not be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if such arrangements are made, our counterparties might not have effective sales and marketing forces. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. We may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of our agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted at this early stage. We might not be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas. We may enter into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances, which could require us to give up rights to our product candidates. We may rely on third-party distributors to distribute our products or enter into marketing alliances to sell our products. We may not be successful in entering into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances with third parties. Our failure to successfully develop a marketing and sales team or to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms could delay or impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates and could increase our costs of commercialization. Our dependence on distribution arrangements and marketing alliances to commercialize our product candidates will subject us to a number of risks, including: • we may be required to relinquish important rights to our products or product candidates; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors or collaborators may devote to the commercialization of our product candidates; • our distributors or collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • our distributors or collaborators may not devote sufficient time to the marketing and sales of our products thereby exposing us to potential expenses in terminating such distribution agreements; and • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement. We may need to enter into additional co-promotion arrangements with third parties where our own sales force is neither well situated nor large enough to achieve maximum penetration in the market. We may not be successful in entering into any co-promotion arrangements, and the terms of any co-promotion arrangements may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we enter into co-promotion arrangements or market and sell additional products directly, we may need to further expand our sales force and incur additional costs. If we fail to enter into arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or if they fail to perform, it could adversely affect sales of our products. We and any of our third-party collaborators must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws relating to the providing of incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. 20 Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations, including Genzyme Corp., Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, Actelion Ltd. and Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. Genzyme currently sells proprietary compounds for the treatment of Gaucher Disease. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields, as well as other protein expression platforms, represent substantial competition. Most of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, staff and facilities and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, acquisitions and joint ventures candidates and for other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish and our business and competitive position would suffer. Our competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors and collaborators to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have filed U.S. and Patent Cooperation Treaty (“PCT”) patent applications for process patents, as well as composition of matter patents, for prGCD. We also have 46 granted and pending patent applications that we own, and five patent applications that we co-own, as discussed under Item 1, “Business—Patents and Other Intellectual Property.” However, we cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our licensed patents; • if and when patents will issue; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our licensed patents and patent applications; or • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. If patent rights covering our products are not sufficiently broad, they may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products and technologies. Furthermore, if the United States Patent and Trademark Office or foreign patent offices issue patents to us or our licensors, others may challenge the patents or circumvent the patents, or the patent office or the courts may invalidate the patents. Thus, any patents we own or license from or to third parties may not provide any protection against our competitors. Furthermore, the life of our patents is limited. The basic platform patent will expire in 2016. If patents issue from other currently submitted patent applications, those patents will expire between 2023 and 2025. We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce. Although we believe that we take reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property, including the use of agreements relating to the non-disclosure of confidential information to third parties, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them, the agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. Although we seek to obtain these types of agreements from our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators, to the extent that they apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the 21 proprietary rights to this type of information. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party, and enforcement of our rights can be costly and unpredictable. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we will seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: • these agreements may be breached; • these agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; • our trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known; • our competitors will independently develop similar technology; or • our competitors will independently discover our proprietary information and trade secrets. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and required to defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug candidates; • defend litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of management resources; or • pay damages. We have not received to date any claims of infringement by any third parties. However, as our drug candidates progress into clinical trials and commercialization, if at all, our public profile and that of our drug candidates may be raised and generate such claims. If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products. We depend on licensing agreements with third parties to maintain the intellectual property rights to certain of our products under development. Presently, we have licensed rights from Icon (Bayer), and Yeda. These agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations in order to maintain our rights under these licensing agreements. All of these agreements last either throughout the life of the patents, or with respect to other licensed technology, for a number of years after the first commercial sale of the relevant product. In addition, we are responsible for the cost of filing and prosecuting certain patent applications and maintaining certain issued patents licensed to us. If we do not meet our obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner, we could lose the rights to our proprietary technology. Finally, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies. Licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights might not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. In addition to our own internally developed drug candidates, we proactively seek opportunities to license in and advance recombinant DNA products such as therapeutic proteins, vaccines and antibodies that are strategic and have value-creating potential to take advantage of our development know-how. Any additional drug candidates may significantly increase our capital requirements and place further strain on the time of our existing personnel, which may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our existing drug candidates, or cause us to re-prioritize our drug pipeline if we do not have the necessary capital resources to develop all of our drug candidates. Alternatively, we may be required to hire more 22 employees and increase our facilities and corporate infrastructure, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not efficiently use our resources, which may delay the development of our drug candidates and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend upon key employees and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, especially our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. David Aviezer, as well as our directors, scientific advisory board members, consultants and collaborating scientists. Many of these people were involved in the formation of Protalix Ltd. or have otherwise been involved with Protalix Ltd. for many years, have played integral roles in the progress of Protalix Ltd. and we believe that they will continue to provide value to us. A loss of any of these personnel may have a material adverse effect on aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. We have employment agreements with Dr. Aviezer and four other officers that may be terminated by us or the officer at any time with varying notice periods of 60 to 90 days. Although these employment agreements generally include non-competition covenants and provide for severance payments that are contingent upon the applicable employee’s refraining from competition with us, the applicable noncompetition provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce. The loss of any of these persons’ services would adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Further, we do not maintain key-man life insurance. We also will depend in part on the continued service of our key scientific personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel, including marketing and sales staff. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel, and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to suit from their former employers. While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, many of our competitors are likely to have greater resources and more experience than we have, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with all of our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements against most of our employees and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. If we cannot enforce our employees’ non-compete agreements, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We may incur substantial expenses and liabilities and we may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The clinical testing of, marketing and use of our products exposes us to product liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of those products causes injury, disease or results in adverse effects. Use of our products in clinical trials, as well as commercial sale, could result in product liability claims. In addition, sales of our products through third party arrangements could also subject us to product liability claims. We presently carry clinical trial liability insurance with coverages of up to $5 million per occurrence and $5 million in the aggregate, an amount we consider reasonable and customary. However, this insurance coverage includes various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage, and in any event might not fully cover any potential claims. We may need to obtain additional clinical trial liability coverage prior to initiating additional clinical trials. We expect to obtain product liability insurance coverage before commercialization of our proposed products; however, the insurance is expensive and insurance companies may not issue this type of insurance when we need it. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance in the future at an acceptable cost. Any product liability claim, even one that was not in excess of our insurance coverage or one that is meritless and/or unsuccessful, could adversely affect our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development. In addition, the existence of a product liability claim could affect the market price of our common stock. We expect to face uncertainty over reimbursement and healthcare reform. In both the United States and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third party payors, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. We also cannot predict the effects of any health insurance or other healthcare reforms on the availability of reimbursement. 23 Risks relating to our operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in the State of Israel, where the majority of our senior management and our research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations. Our office and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Operations in Israel accounted for most of our operating expenses for 2005 and 2006. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could affect adversely our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our revenues to decrease. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit seriously our ability to sell our products in these countries. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity since October 2000. The recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council has resulted in a further escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Beginning in mid-2006, significant fighting has taken place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in rockets being fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel. Our facilities are located in northern Israel, are in range of rockets that were fired recently from Lebanon into Israel and suffered minimal damages during one of the rocket attacks. In the event that our facilities are damaged as a result of hostile action, our operations may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our male employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform one month (in some cases more) of annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business. Because a certain portion of our expenses is incurred in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations. We generate our limited revenues in U.S. dollars but we pay a portion of our expenses in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to risk to the extent that the inflation rate in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or if the timing of these devaluations lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. To the extent that the value of the NIS increases against the dollar, our expenses on a dollar cost basis increase. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. The tax benefits available to us require that we meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are able to take advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” status of its facilities in Israel. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment (of NIS 5.4 million), and financing at least 30% of such investments with share capital. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we may be required to refund any tax benefits we already have enjoyed. These tax benefits are subject to investment policy by the Israeli Government Investment Center and may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. In recent years the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits or our inability to qualify for additional “Approved Enterprise” approvals may increase our tax expenses in the future, which would reduce our expected profits. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, such increased activities generally may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. As of December 31, 2006, we had tax exempt income attributable to the “Approved Enterprise” in the amount of approximately $15 million. 24 In addition, our Net Operating Loss (NOL) carry forward of approximately $3 million might be restricted under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). IRC Section 382 applies whenever a corporation with an NOL experiences an ownership change. As a result of Section 382, the taxable income for any post-change year that may be offset by the pre-change NOL may not exceed the general Section 382 limitation, which is the fair market value of the pre-change entity multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate. The Israeli government grants we have received for certain research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties. Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants that we have received from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS. We, therefore, must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. Under the Research Law, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology developed with OCS funding. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research or development, or for the licensing of the technology in the ordinary course of business. We may not receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: • we may be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any sale of such technology by an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapses between the date on which the know-how is transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and • the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing that is foreign). These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel. We have no current intention to manufacture or transfer technologies out of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. Investors may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us, our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. Most of our directors and officers are not residents of the United States and most of our and their assets are located outside the United States. Service of process upon our non-U.S. resident directors and officers and enforcement of judgments obtained in the United States against us, some of our directors and executive officers may be difficult to obtain within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Baratz, Horn &Co., that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities, including those judgments based upon U.S. federal securities laws, for original actions instituted in Israel. An investor also may find it difficult to enforce in either a U.S. or an Israeli court a U.S. court judgment, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws against us, or against our directors and officers. Moreover, an investor may find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us, or against our directors and officers. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside Israel, which may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us, or against our directors and officers. Subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that: • the judgment was rendered by a court that was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; • the judgment may no longer be appealed; • the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and 25 • the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: • the judgment was obtained by fraud; • there is a finding of lack of due process; • the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; • the judgment is at variance with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or • at the time the action was brought in the foreign court, a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. Risks related to investing in our common stock An investment in our common stock is very speculative and involves a very high degree of risk. To date, we have generated no revenues from product sales and only minimal revenues from license payments and other fees. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2006, was $20.5 million. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, we had net losses of $9.4 million, $5.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under its control and expenses supporting those activities. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for its drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not generate product revenues. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from the net proceeds of any equity or debt offerings, cash on hand, licensing fees and grants. Although we plan to pursue additional financing, we may not be able to secure financing when needed or obtain such financing on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; • developments in the biotechnology industry; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has recently experienced price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility of our common stock may be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. We have not paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends on our common stock as any earnings generated from future operations will be used to finance our operations. As a result, investors will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock until and unless their shares are sold at a profit. 26 Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares, the issuance of new shares by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could affect materially and adversely the market price of our common stock. Some or all of the “restricted” shares of our common stock issued to former stockholders of Protalix Ltd. in connection with the merger or held by other stockholders may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to an effective registration statement or Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. We have agreed to use our best efforts to file a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the resale of all shares of common stock received by Protalix Ltd.’s former stockholders after our common stock has been listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange, and to use our best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective as promptly as possible after filing. We are obligated to maintain the effectiveness of this shelf registration statement until the shares registered under it are eligible for resale under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. However, under the terms of a tax ruling obtained by Protalix Ltd. from the Israeli tax authorities in connection with the merger, we and Protalix Ltd. are subject to various restrictions and conditions in connection with the issuance of shares for a period commencing upon the closing of the merger through January 1, 2009, including, but not limited to, a requirement that we maintain our holdings of at least 51% of the outstanding shares of Protalix Ltd. and that the shareholders at the time of the closing of the merger maintain aggregate holdings of at least 51% of our outstanding shares. All liabilities of Orthodontix, Inc. have survived the merger and Orthodontix, Inc. may have undisclosed liabilities that could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Protalix Ltd. and its counsel conducted due diligence on Orthodontix, Inc. customary and appropriate for the reverse merger transaction consummated on December 31, 2006. However, the due diligence process may not have revealed all our material liabilities then existing or that could be asserted in the future against us relating to our activities before the consummation of the merger. In addition, the merger agreement contained no stockholder post-closing adjustments to the number of shares of common stock issued to pre-merger Protalix Ltd. stockholders as a means of providing a remedy for breaches of representations made in the merger agreement by Orthodontix, Inc., nor does it provide any relevant indemnifications. Any such potential liabilities of Orthodontix, Inc. survive the merger and could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Trading of our common stock is limited. Our common stock began trading on the American Stock Exchange in March 2007. To date, the liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analyst and media coverage, if at all. These factors may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Further, the limited liquidity could be an indication that the trading price is not reflective of the actual fair market value of our common stock. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that an investor may not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. 27 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Under current regulations, we are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and management’s assessment thereof as of the end of our 2007 fiscal year; we will be required to provide the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our assessment for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We are in the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404, and we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors, which is required under current regulation for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and divert management’s attention from operating our business. There have been other changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in addition to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as new regulations promulgated by the Commission and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. Accordingly, our ability to conduct our operations, service any debt that we may incur in the future and pay dividends, if any, is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by Protalix, Ltd., our only subsidiary. The distribution of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by our subsidiary to us are contingent upon its earnings and are subject to various business considerations and Israeli law. If Protalix Ltd. is unable to make sufficient distributions or advances to us, we may not have the cash resources necessary to conduct our corporate operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 