Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully read and consider the risk factors described below as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information contained in other filings with the SEC. Any of these risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially and adversely affect us. Concentrations of loans in Northwest, Northcentral and Central Arkansas may increase risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in its primary market areas – Northwest, Northcentral and Central Arkansas. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 80% of the Company’s total loans receivable consisted of loans collateralized by real estate located in a six county region in northern Arkansas and Pulaski and Faulkner counties in Central Arkansas. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these geographical areas have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as the Company’s ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in any of these markets could lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. Concentrations of loans to certain borrowers may increase risk. At December 31, 2013, the Bank’s largest ten loan relationships totaled $92.2 million, or 24% of total loans receivable. While all of these loans were pass rated credits, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of any of these borrowers could result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Bank has an elevated percentage of nonperforming loans and classified assets relative to total assets. If the allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, results of operations will be adversely affected. At December 31, 2013, nonperforming loans totaled $11.9 million, representing 3.11% of total loans and 2.18% of total assets. At December 31, 2013, real estate owned totaled $8.6 million or 1.6% of total assets. As a result, the Company’s total nonperforming assets amounted to $20.6 million or 3.8% of total assets at December 31, 2013. Further, assets classified by management as substandard, including nonperforming loans and real estate owned, totaled $23.4 million, representing 4.3% of total assets. At December 31, 2013, the allowance for loan and lease losses was $12.7 million, representing 106.5% of nonperforming loans. In the event loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, significant loan losses could result, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses based upon, among other things: • historical experience; • repayment capacity of borrowers; • an evaluation of local, regional and national economic conditions; • regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; • collateral evaluations; • current trends regarding the volume and severity of problem loans; • the existence and effect of concentrations of credit; and • results of regulatory examinations. 15 Based on these factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the respective loan portfolios. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and management must make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, the Board of Directors and the OCC periodically review the allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. The OCC’s judgments may differ from management. While management believes that the allowance for loan and lease losses is appropriate based on our evaluation, management may determine that an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses is needed or regulators may require an increase in the allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s profitability and asset values. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank estimates that its one-year cumulative repricing gap position was a positive 3% of total assets and the one-year ratio of interest earning assets to interest bearing liabilities was 108% with both measures including assumptions for loan prepayments and calls of investment securities. Based on these measures, the Bank estimates a limited impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating or adjustable rate loans made up approximately 36% of the $383.9 million of total loans receivable. Fixed rate loans of approximately 64% of total loans receivable had a weighted average remaining contractual term of approximately 5.8 years. Significant changes in the composition of our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position possibly causing interest rate changes to have a material impact on our earnings. In addition, earnings may be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates due to a number of factors including among other items, call features and interest rate caps and floors on various assets and liabilities, prepayments, the current interest rates on assets and liabilities to be repriced in each period, and the relative changes in interest rates on different types of assets and liabilities. In addition a significant and prolonged increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the investment securities portfolio classified as available for sale and, accordingly, shareholders’ equity. At December 31, 2013 the Bank had $70.8 million of investment securities, all of which were classified as available for sale which resulted in recording a net unrealized loss of $467,000. Based on market rates at December 31, 2013 it was estimated that a 200 basis point increase in rates would have resulted in an approximate 7.9% decrease in the fair value of the securities. The Company and the Bank face strong competition that may adversely affect profitability. The Company and the Bank are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies, and with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, and larger branch systems. These competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future bank failures across the country could significantly increase FDIC premiums. Difficult economic conditions in recent years have resulted in increased bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. Recent bank failures have substantially depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the fund's ratio of reserves to insured deposits. If the FDIC elects to increase deposit insurance premiums and assessments, the Company’s noninterest expense could increase significantly. 16 Future bank failures in local markets could cause increased and bulk sales of bank-owned properties, reducing the value of our REO, resulting in additional losses, costs and expenses that may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Future bank failures or an increase in the number of troubled banks in the Bank’s geographic regions could adversely impact the value of our REO. Declines in the housing market during recent years, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions in our markets. Future bank failures or an increase in the number of troubled banks in the areas in which the Bank operates could exacerbate these conditions. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market like Northwest Arkansas with reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of REO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and reduce the Company’s ultimate realization from any REO sales. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had $8.6 million and $16.7 million of REO, respectively. At December 31, 2013, the Bank’s REO portfolio included $4.7 million of land. Land sales and values have been particularly slow to recover. While the Bank’s REO and REO-related expenses are trending downward due to a decrease in the amount of its REO properties and management believes that general economic conditions in its market areas have been improving, a slowing or reversal in this economic recovery or future weakness in the housing market, particularly in Northwest Arkansas, could reduce the value of the Bank’s existing REO. Additionally, if such conditions materialize, the number of properties comprising the Bank’s REO portfolio could increase. If the amount of the Bank’s REO properties or real estate owned by other banks in our market areas increases, the Company’s losses and the costs and expenses of maintaining our REO would likely increase. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to REO could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets in recent years. These declines, especially in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by the Bank and other financial institutions. Additional or recurring declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial services industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan and lease losses or could require further write-downs of the Bank’s real estate owned. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: ■ Economic conditions in the Bank’s markets that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in deterioration in credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. ■ Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. ■ The processes the Company uses to estimate the allowance for loan and lease losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. ■ The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the processes and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. ■ The Company has faced and expects to continue to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation has increased and may continue to increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. 17 A portion of the loan portfolio is related to commercial real estate, construction, commercial business and consumer lending activities and certain loans are secured by vacant or unimproved land. Uncertainties related to these lending activities may negatively impact these loans and could adversely impact results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 51% of loans were related to commercial real estate and construction projects. Commercial real estate and construction lending is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms that often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. The loan portfolio also includes commercial business loans to small and medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a variety of consumer loans, including automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. In addition, a portion of the loan portfolio is secured by vacant or unimproved land. Loans secured by vacant or unimproved land are generally more risky than loans secured by improved property. These loans are susceptible to adverse conditions in the real estate market and local economy. Uncertainties related to these lending activities could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a heavily regulated environment, and that regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may restrict some of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates and locations of offices. The regulators’ interpretation and application of relevant regulations are beyond our control and may change rapidly and unpredictably. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors. These regulations may not always be in the best interest of investors. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the financial services industry. Over the past several years, the scale of response by U.S. financial regulators has been significant. New legislative proposals continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including with respect to compensation, interest rates and the effect of bankruptcy proceedings on consumer real property mortgages. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations and/or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Management cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulation to the Company or the Bank. Compliance with current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase costs, impede the efficiency of internal business processes, require us to increase regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Additionally, evolving regulations concerning executive compensation may impose limitations that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, our regulators may elect to alter standards or their interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or to determine the adequacy certain risk management or other operational practices for financial services companies in a manner that impacts our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have discretion in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets. If any regulatory agency’s assessment of our asset quality differs negatively from ours, additional charges may be required that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and stock price. The U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) on July 21, 2010, which includes sweeping changes in the banking regulatory environment. The Dodd-Frank Act changed our primary regulator and may, among other things, alter the regulation of certain business activities and increase the cost of doing business. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at larger financial institutions, and some will affect only institutions with different charters or institutions that engage in different activities, it will likely increase the Company and the Bank’s regulatory compliance burden and may have other adverse effects, including increasing the costs associated with regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The Company and the Bank are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company and the Bank are still undetermined, the law is likely to result in increased compliance costs, higher regulatory costs, and possible operational restrictions. 18 Further, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulation or policies, including the Dodd-Frank Act, could affect the Company or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products offered or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While management cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic crisis, and cannot predict whether the Company or the Bank will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. Management cannot predict whether additional legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and the Bank. The Company and the Bank could be materially and adversely affected if any of our officers or directors fails to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies. Any interventions by regulatory authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against the Company or the Bank or its officers or directors could materially and adversely affect the Company and the Bank’s business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm. The Bank may incur increased employee benefit costs which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is a participant in the multiemployer Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan (the “Pentegra DB Plan”). Since the Pentegra DB Plan is a multiemployer plan, contributions of participating employers are commingled and invested on a pooled basis without allocation to specific employers or employees. Assets contributed to a multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. In addition, if a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the multiemployer plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. On April 30, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank elected to freeze the Pentegra DB Plan effective July 1, 2010, eliminating all future benefit accruals for participants in the Pentegra DB Plan and closing the Pentegra DB Plan to new participants as of that date. The Pentegra DB Plan is noncontributory and prior to July 1, 2010 covered substantially all employees. Since July 1, 2010, the Bank has continued to incur costs consisting of administration and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation insurance expenses as well as amortization charges based on the funding level of the Pentegra DB Plan. The level of amortization charges is determined by the Pentegra DB Plan's funding shortfall, which is determined by comparing the Pentegra DB Plan’s liabilities to the Pentegra DB Plan’s assets. Net pension expense was approximately $532,000 and $566,000 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and contributions to the Pentegra DB Plan totaled $622,000 and $991,000 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, are also subject to changes in legislation. Based on factors that influence the levels of plan assets and liabilities, such as the level of interest rates and the performance of plan assets, it is reasonably possible that events could occur that would materially change the estimated amount of the Bank’s required contribution in the near term. Additionally, if the Bank were to terminate its participation in the Pentegra DB Plan, the Bank could incur a significant withdrawal liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An inability to make technological advances may reduce the Company and the Bank’s ability to successfully compete. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, the Company and the Bank’s future success will depend in part on the ability to address customers’ needs by using technology. The Company and the Bank may be unable to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services and may be unsuccessful in marketing these products to our customers. Many competitors have greater resources to invest in technology. Any failure to keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company and the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 The Company and the Bank are subject to security and operational risks relating to technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in internet banking activities could expose the Company and the Bank to possible liability and reputational damage. Any security compromise could also deter customers from using internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Company and the Bank rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions and security measures may not protect systems from compromises or breaches that could result in reputational damage. Additionally, the Company and the Bank outsource data processing to a third party. If the third party provider encounters difficulties or if the Company and the Bank have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. The Bank has never incurred a material security breach nor encountered any significant down time with our outsourced partners. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our systems could damage our reputation, result in loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which can make it difficult to sell shares of the Company’s common stock at times, volumes and prices attractive to our shareholders. The Company’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “FFBH.” The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is lower than larger financial institutions. Because the trading volume of our common stock is lower, and thus has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly traded companies, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. In addition, market value of thinly traded stocks can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to those described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: ● actual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results, cash flows and financial condition; ● changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; ● speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; ● strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; ● fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; ● future issuances or re-sales of our equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur; ● proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; ● anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation or accounting matters that involve or affect us; ● domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and ● general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and market prices for the stock of many companies, including those in the financial services sector, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to operating performance. This is due, in part, to investors’ shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, notwithstanding our actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company expects that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, our operating performance and investor perceptions of the outlook for the Company and the Bank specifically and the banking industry in general. 20 As a result of the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock and its susceptibility to market price volatility, shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at times, volumes or prices they find attractive. Bear State holds a controlling interest in the Company’s common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other shareholders. Bear State currently owns approximately 79% of Company common stock, assuming exercise of outstanding warrants held by it. Following consummation of the Merger and the Private Placement, we anticipate that Bear State will own approximately 63.4% of Company common stock, assuming exercise of outstanding warrants held by it. As a result, Bear State is able to control the election of directors, determine corporate and management policies and determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to Company shareholders for approval. Such transactions may include mergers and acquisitions, sales of all or some of the Company’s assets or purchases of assets, and other significant corporate transactions. Bear State also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of Bear State may differ from those of the Company’s other shareholders, and it may take actions that advance its interests to the detriment of other shareholders. Additionally, Bear State is in the business of making investments in or acquiring financial institutions and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with the Company. Bear State may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to the Company. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to the other holders of the Company’s common stock, and the market price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected by the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. As a controlled company, the Company is exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, and holders of its common stock may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. The Company’s common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires independent director oversight over the nominating and executive compensation functions. However, under NASDAQ’s rules, if an individual or another entity owns more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and is exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. The Company is a controlled company because Bear State owns more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors. Accordingly, the Company is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, and holders of the Company’s common stock may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. Notwithstanding the Company’s exemption from these requirements, six of the nine current directors of the Company are deemed to be independent in accordance with NASDAQ listing requirements. Shares of Company common stock are not an insured deposit and are subject to substantial investment risk. Investments in Company common stock are not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of its subsidiary bank and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency. Investment in Company common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this "RISK FACTORS" section and in the documents incorporated by reference, and is subject to the same market forces that affect the market price of common stock of any company. As a result, you may lose some or all of your investment. The management of the Company may be required to dedicate significant time and effort to the merger with FNSC and the integration of FNSC into the Company, all of which may divert their attention from other business concerns of and their responsibility to the Company. The Merger has and will continue to cause the management of the Company to focus a portion of its time and energies on matters related to the Merger that otherwise would be directed to the business and operations of the Company. Any significant diversion of management’s attention could affect the Company’s ability to service existing business and develop new business and adversely affect the earnings of the Company. 21 If the Merger is not completed, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. A termination of the Merger Agreement prior to the closing could have negative consequences for the Company. For example, the Company’s business may have been impacted adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Merger. Additionally, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption that the Merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving consummation of a competing transaction, the Company may be required to pay FNSC a termination fee of $3,000,000. Combining the Company and FNSC may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and failure to do so quickly and efficiently could reduce the Company’s profitability, affect its stock price and either delay or prevent realization of many of the potential benefits of the Merger. The success of the Company following the Merger may depend in large part on the ability to integrate the two businesses and cultures. If the Company and FNSC are not able to integrate their operations efficiently and timely, the expected benefits of the Merger may not be realized. It is possible that the integration process following completion of the Merger could result in the loss of key employees, disruption of each company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with the Company’s or FNSC’s existing customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. As with any merger of banking institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause the Company and FNSC to lose customers. Following the Merger, the Company may be required to spend additional time and money on operating compatibility, which could otherwise be spent on developing the Company’s business. If the Company and FNSC do not integrate operations effectively or efficiently, it could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 22 