D. Risk Factors Capital Birch currently has insufficient revenue to meet its yearly operating and capital requirements. Historically, the Company has successfully raised funds necessary to develop its leases and permits, to prepare for and plan operations and to conduct its corporate affairs primarily through public and private placements of common stock or debt financing. As required in the future or as advantageous to the Company, financing may be available through joint venture or partnering agreements, through additional issuance of equity or by obtaining project debt financing. Although these are alternatives the Company will investigate, there is no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising the capital it needs to continue its business. Birch is an Early Stage Production Company Birch opened the MVQ, the initial quarry situated within the Hammerstone Project, in December 2005, under the regulatory approvals and operating permits received in July 2005. The MVQ is fully operational, producing and selling a range of limestone aggregate and reagent products. First commercial sales occurred in the second quarter of 2006. In May 2006, Birch filed an Application with the provincial regulatory authorities for the remainder of the Hammerstone Project, to integrate the existing MVQ with an expanded quarry and aggregate plant, as well as a limestone processing complex to produce limestone-based reagent products. There is a risk that the operations at MVQ may have delays, interruptions or increased costs or that the Hammerstone Project may not commence at all, due to many factors, including, without limitation: breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; production performance falling below expected levels of output or efficiency; design errors; contractor or operator errors; non-performance by third-party contractors; labour disputes, disruptions or declines in productivity; increases in materials or labour costs; inability to attract sufficient numbers of qualified workers; delays in obtaining, or conditions imposed by, regulatory approvals; changes in the scope of the development or operations; markets for products not developing as expected; violation of permit requirements; disruption of energy supply; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, storms or explosions. The current construction and operations schedules may not proceed as planned, there may be delays and the operation of the MVQ and the development of the Hammerstone Project may not be achieved on time or on budget. Any such delays may increase or decrease the costs and may require additional financing, which may not be available. Actual costs to operate the MVQ or to construct and develop the Hammerstone Project will vary from estimates and such variances may be significant. Given the stage of development of the Hammerstone Project, various changes may be made prior to completing construction. Based on current scheduling, the Hammerstone Project is not expected to start commercial quicklime operations before late 2009. 9 The information contained herein, including, without limitation, reserve and economic evaluations, is conditional upon receipt of all regulatory approvals and no material changes being made to the planned MVQ operations and the Hammerstone Project. Regulatory and Environmental Requirements May Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate The Company operates in areas that are subject to government provisions regulating operations and development of mineral resources. Birch may be constrained or forbidden to develop its plans and mandated operating guidelines may adversely affect the economic viability of the projects. The Company holds metallic and industrial mineral permits and leases issued by the Government of Alberta. Birch is required by regulation to operate under environmental approval conditions that are issued by the Government of Alberta and the Government of Canada. Additionally, public expectation of industry’s environmental performance is high. Birch has established environmental policies, procedures and management systems and has operated the quarry in full compliance with all environmental conditions since quarry operations began in 2006. Birch has and will continue to work with regulators and local communities to address public environmental concerns. Competitive Risk May Reduce the Corporation’s Ability to Operate Birch must develop its mineral reserves and there is no assurance the type or amount of the mineral reserves will produce the economic results expected. Additionally, the Company must negotiate sales arrangements with its customers and demonstrate that its products are reliable and suitable for use in the oil sands industry. Although the Company believes that competing aggregate companies in the Fort McMurray region are limited in both size and quality and, as a result, high market share assumptions have been made, Birch may have to compete with larger companies that have greater assets and financial and human resources, and which may be able to sustain lower margins than the Company to develop business. Birch and the economic viability of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project may be negatively impacted if new sources of aggregates and/or industrial minerals are located and developed. Independent Reviews Provide No Assurance of Future Results Although third parties have prepared reviews, reports and projections relating to the viability and expected performance of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project, it cannot be assured that these reports, reviews and projections and the assumptions on which they are based will, over time, prove to be accurate. Birch gained regulatory approval for the MVQ in 2005 and beginning in 2006, operated the quarry and successfully extracted, processed and sold quality limestone aggregate products. The ability of Birch to obtain the necessary approvals, to secure adequate operating and capital financing to move forward with the next phase of quarry expansion and the construction and operation of the quicklime plant, and to operate profitably in the future are uncertain. Customer Dependency May Reduce the Flexibility of the Company to Operate For the sale of aggregate and less so for the sale of reagent products, Birch is dependent on customers located geographically near the limestone quarry and production facilities. Costs of transportation of aggregate are high relative to its cost of production and tend to be prohibitive to customers who ship the product over longer distances. As a result, Birch plans to market products to the oil sands industry in the Fort McMurray region in Northern Alberta. With market concentration based on geography, Birch is dependant on production and expansion in the local area. There are no guarantees that oil sands companies will continue to require the Company’s products in sufficient quantities to ensure profitable operations. 10 Personnel Risks May Impact the Company’s Ability to Carry Out its Operational Plans The Company currently employs 31 fulltime and part time employees. In 2007, operations, maintenance and technical personnel were hired to operate the quarry 24 hours per day, seven days per week, producing and shipping up to 20,000 tonnes per day. In Northern Alberta, skilled labour and technical services are in high demand and there is uncertainty surrounding the ability to obtain the workforce required to implement the future stages of the Hammerstone Project, which includes the construction and operation of the quicklime plants. Should the Company not be able to secure sufficient personnel, the project may not become operational or economically viable. Alternate Technologies May Reduce the Demand for the Company’s Products The use of limestone for aggregates and the use of quicklime as a product for desulphurization of air emissions and water treatment could be replaced by alternate technologies as the oil sands industry looks at more cost-effective and efficient methods. The rate of development and adoption of new technologies and the impact of these technologies on the Company’s business cannot be determined. Revenue and Earnings May Fluctuate Which Could Affect Our Common Share Price Our revenues and earnings may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including: Concentration in our customer base The timing of substantial orders Seasonal fluctuations in demand Delays in the manufacture or shipment of products Our ability to obtain payment from our customers on a timely basis Our ability to manage inventory levels given the volatility in our sales, the length of the sales cycle and the variable and unpredictable nature of demand in the region As a result, quarter-to-quarter and seasonal comparisons of our revenues and earnings may not be meaningful. It is also possible that these quarterly fluctuations could result in our operating results falling below the expectations of investors and securities analysts in one or more future quarters. As a result, these quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and earnings may affect the market price of Common Shares. Birch Will Require Additional Regulatory Approvals and Operating Permits In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek regulatory approvals and operating permits from the federal, provincial and local governments for expansion of existing operations and the commencement of new operations. Obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals and operating permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous agencies and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings on the part of the Company. The duration and success of regulatory and permitting efforts are contingent upon many variables outside the Company’s control. Environmental protection permitting, including the approval of reclamation plans, may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. There can be no assurance that all regulatory approvals and operating permits will be obtained and, i f obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those previously estimated by the Company. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that the Company could not proceed with the development or operation of the Hammerstone Project. All regulatory approvals and operating permits for the MVQ were received in July 2005. 11 Title Risks May Result in Title Claims or Disputes Birch is satisfied that it has good and proper right, title and interest in and to the mineral properties that are currently under development or in production. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. Certain aboriginal peoples have filed a claim against the Government of Canada, the Province of Alberta, certain governmental entities and the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB), which includes the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta claiming, among other things, aboriginal title to large areas of lands surrounding Fort McMurray, including the lands on which the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project and most of the oil sands operations in Alberta are located. Such claims, if successful, could have a significant adverse effect on the oil sands bitumen producers and on Birch, the MVQ and/or the Hammerstone Project. Abandonment and Reclamation Costs and Regulations May Change Birch is responsible for complying with terms and conditions of environmental and regulatory approvals and all laws and regulations regarding the abandonment of the site and reclamation of its lands at the end of its economic life, which abandonment and reclamation costs may be substantial. A breach of such legislation and/or regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including an order for cessation of operations at the site until satisfactory remedies are made. Abandonment and reclamation costs are estimates and since they will be a function of regulatory requirements at the time, costs of goods and services at the time and the value of the salvaged equipment may be more or less than the abandonment and reclamation costs. Birch is required to post bond or a letter of credit with Alberta Environment annually in an amount sufficient to reclaim the lands disturbed, thus managing the long-term reclamation liability. Birch is Subject to Certain Mining Hazards The business of mining is subject to certain types of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, and industrial accidents. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damages, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Any payments made with regards to such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on Birch’s financial position. The Company carries insurance to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing to the extent that it is economically feasible but which may not be adequate. 12 There is a Possibility of Dilution to Present and Prospective Shareholders Any transaction involving the issuance of additional Birch shares or securities may result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of Common Shares. Enforcement of Civil Liabilities by Present and Prospective Shareholders May be Adversely Affected The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the US may be affected adversely by the fact that the Company is incorporated under the laws of Alberta, Canada; that the independent auditors who have audited the Company’s financial statements and some or all of the Company’s directors and officers may be residents of Canada or elsewhere, and that all or a substantial portion of the Company’s assets and said persons are located outside the US. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of the Common Shares to effect service of process within the US upon people who are not residents of the US or to realize in the US upon judgments of courts of the US predicated upon civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the US. 