Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial services industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: · Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. 26 Table of Contents · The processes the Company uses to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the processes and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · The Company expects to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Change in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within the Company’s geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for the Company’s products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by the Bank many decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Company’s loans held for investment. The declining real estate market could impact the Company’s business. The Bank’s business activities and credit exposures are concentrated in Northwest Arkansas and the surrounding region. A continued downturn in this regional real estate market could hurt the Company’s business because of the geographic concentration within this regional area. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for the Bank’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Bank’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities and repricing of our interest earning assets currently are fairly well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities and repricing of our interest bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates due to a number of factors which can have a material impact on the Bank’s interest rate risk position. Such factors include among other items, call features and interest rate caps and floors on various assets and liabilities, prepayments, the current interest rates on assets and liabilities to be repriced in each period, and the relative changes in interest rates on different types of assets and liabilities. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, construction, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing commercial real estate. In addition, our portfolio includes loans for the construction of single-family residential real estate and land development loans. Commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the 27 Table of Contents project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small- to medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. At December 31, 2008, total nonaccrual loans amounted to $25.4 million, a $7.9 million or 23.7% decrease compared to nonaccrual loans of $33.3 million at December 31, 2007. Such decrease was primarily due to a $8.9 million decrease in nonaccrual land development loans which were transferred to real estate owned during the year. The Northwest Arkansas market has experienced an oversupply of lots and speculative homes and certain of the Bank’s builders are experiencing extended marketing times for the sale of their homes, resulting in inadequate cash flow to service the interest carry on their loan. As a result, the Bank has substantially curtailed such lending. The resolution of such nonaccrual loans may substantially impact the Company’s provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. A decrease in current values or an adverse change in loss experience may require us to increase both our provision for loan losses and our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for losses on loans may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any further declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect our business and operations and that of our subsidiaries in the future. We face strong competition that may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. The Company is subject to restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase its shares as a result of its participation in the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. On March 6, 2009, the Company issued to the Treasury for aggregate consideration of $16.5 million (i) 16,500 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a Warrant to purchase 321,847 shares of the Company’s Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company may not declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company may not increase the dividends on its Common Stock above the amount of the last quarter cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008, which was $0.16 per share, without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. 28 Table of Contents Further, until the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed, the Company may not pay a quarterly cash dividend in excess of $0.01 per share without approval of its primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Company’s ability to repurchase its shares is also restricted under the terms of the Purchase Agreement. The Treasury’s consent generally is required for the Company to make any stock repurchases until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our certificate of incorporation does not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. We may incur increased employee benefit costs. Our pension benefits are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Fluctuations in market performance and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, changes in our discount rate or expected compensation levels could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, may be subject to changes in legislation. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We opened two new branches during calendar year 2008. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. If external funds are not available, this could adversely impact our growth and future prospects. We primarily rely on deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank advances to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired, no assurance can be given that we will be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or market conditions were to change. Although we consider the sources of existing funds adequate for our current liquidity needs, we may seek brokered deposits or debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional funds, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 29 Table of Contents 