Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information in this Form 10-K and the information contained in our other filings with the SEC. You should carefully consider the following risks in light of our current operating environment and regulatory status. The occurrence of any of the events described below could materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. Additional risks not presently known by us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse impact. Our capital levels currently are not sufficient to achieve compliance with the higher capital requirements that we were required to meet by December 31, 2010. The Bank Order directs the Bank to raise its tier 1 core capital and Total Risk-Based Capital Ratios to 8.0% and 12.0%, respectively, by December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we did not meet these requirements and would have needed approximately $9.9 million in additional capital based on assets at such date to meet these requirements. The Company currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank. As previously discussed, on January 27, 2011, the Company and the Bank entered into an Investment Agreement with Bear State which sets forth the terms and conditions of the Recapitalization. The Company anticipates that Bear State’s investment will take place during the second quarter of 2011, subject to conditions set forth in the Investment Agreement. However, if the Bear State investment transaction does not close as planned, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. The OTS also could direct us to seek a merger partner or to liquidate the Bank. If the transaction with Bear State is not consummated, it is highly unlikely that we will be able to continue as a going concern. If the Company ceases business activities, it is likely that you will lose your investment. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and regulatory enforcement actions could result in further restrictions and enforcement actions. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS and FDIC. As a federally chartered stock savings and loan association, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business. As more fully described in Item 1 — “Business — Regulation — Regulatory Enforcement Actions”, on April 12, 2010, the Company and the Bank both consented to the Orders issued by the OTS. The Orders require the Company and the Bank to, among other things, file with the OTS an updated business plan and capital plan and submit to the OTS, on a quarterly basis with respect to the business plan and monthly with respect to the capital plan, variance reports related to the plans. The Order issued to the Bank also substantially restricts the Bank’s lending activities. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Orders, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the Orders. In addition, the OTS must approve any 40 Table of Contents deviation from our business plan, which could limit our ability to make any changes to our business, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. We cannot predict the further impact of the Orders upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company or the Bank will be able to comply fully with the Orders, or that efforts to comply with the Orders will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company or the Bank. Any material failure by the Company and the Bank to comply with the provisions of the Orders could result in further enforcement actions by the OTS, including placing the Bank into receivership or liquidating the Bank. If the Bank is placed into receivership, the Company would likely cease operations and liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection. If the Company were to liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection, we do not believe that there would be assets available to holders of the capital stock of the Company. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by the Bank and other financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could continue to have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial services industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: · Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in deterioration in credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. · The processes the Company uses to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the processes and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · The Company has faced and expects to continue to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation has increased and may continue to increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. We have a high percentage of nonperforming loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, our net nonperforming loans totaled $49.4 million, representing 12.1% of total loans and 8.2% of total assets. At December 31, 2010, real estate owned totaled $44.7 million or 7.45% of total assets. As a result, the Company’s total nonperforming assets amounted to $94.1 million or 15.68% of total assets at December 31, 2010. Further, assets classified by management as substandard, including nonperforming loans and real estate owned, totaled $149.7 million, representing 24.9% of total assets. At December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $31.1 million, consisting of $23.1 million of general loan loss allowances and $8.0 million of specific valuation allowances. The general valuation allowance represents 46.8% of nonperforming loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things: · historical experience; · repayment capacity of borrowers; · an evaluation of local, regional and national economic conditions; · regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; · collateral evaluations; · current trends regarding the volume and severity of problem loans; · the existence and effect of concentrations of credit; and · results of regulatory examinations. Based on those factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the respective loan portfolios. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, our board of directors and the OTS periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. The OTS’ judgments may differ from those of our management. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, which may be beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. In connection with the OTS examination in the third quarter of 2010, the Company provided an additional $5.6 million to the allowance for loan losses for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Another OTS/FDIC examination began in January 2011. While we believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot provide assurances that we will not need to increase our allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require an increase in our allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any capital available to invest in the Bank and any further increases to our allowance for loan losses and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital levels set forth in the Bank Order. If the Investment is consummated, Bear State will hold a controlling interest in our common stock. If the Investment is consummated, Bear State will own at least 81.80% of our common stock (after taking into account the exercise of the Investor Warrant and assuming the Rights Offering is fully subscribed) and will appoint four of seven representatives on our board of directors. As a result, Bear State will be able to control the election of directors and our corporate policy, including executive compensation, mergers, and any extraordinary transactions. In pursuing its economic interests, Bear State may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may be different from the decisions of other stockholders. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s primary sources of funds are deposits, sales, calls or maturities of securities, and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, financial condition or regulatory status of the Bank, actions by the OTS and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Those sources may include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, repurchase agreements and the Federal Reserve discount window. Currently, however, the Bank may only borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank on a short-term basis and the Federal Reserve discount window is available only when no other sources of liquidity are available. Our financial flexibility will be constrained if we continue to incur losses and are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. We may seek additional debt in the future. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In 42 Table of Contents addition, we may be required to slow or discontinue capital expenditures or make other investments or liquidate assets should those sources not be adequate. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, construction, land, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our loan portfolio also includes commercial business loans to small- to medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a variety of consumer loans, including automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. A portion of our loan portfolio is secured by vacant or unimproved land. Loans secured by vacant or unimproved land are generally more risky than loans secured by improved one- to four- family residential property. Since vacant or unimproved land is generally held by the borrower for investment purposes or future use, payments on loans secured by vacant or unimproved land will typically rank lower in priority to the borrower than a loan the borrower may have on their primary residence or business. These loans are susceptible to adverse conditions in the real estate market and local economy. The Bank’s lending activities are currently restricted as a result of the Orders. For a further discussion of the Orders, see “Business — Regulation - Regulatory Enforcement Actions.” The trading volume of our common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “FFBH.” The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is lower than larger financial institutions. As a result, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all. We will experience an ownership change in connection with the investment in our common stock by Bear State which will result in a limitation of the use of our net operating losses. The Bear State investment transaction as described in the Investment Agreement will constitute an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future taxable income. Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had a $13.3 million NOL for federal income tax purposes that will be carried forward. If the Bear State investment transaction occurs, the Company will experience a permanent loss in the use of a significant portion of these NOLs to offset future taxable income. Since the amount of the permanent loss will depend in large part on our market capitalization at the time of the consummation of the Bear State investment, it is impossible to determine the exact amount of the permanent loss as of the date of this Form 10-K. If the transaction with Bear State is not consummated, we may be required to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future to comply with the capital requirements of the Bank Order, which would dilute existing stockholders’ ownership if they did not, or were not permitted to, invest in the additional issuances. The Bank was directed by the OTS to raise its tier 1 core capital and Total Risk-Based Capital Ratios to 8.0% and 12.0%, respectively, by December 31, 2010. The Bank needed additional capital of approximately $9.9 million at December 31, 2010 to meet this requirement. As previously discussed, on January 27, 2011, the Company and the Bank entered into an Investment Agreement with Bear State which sets forth the terms and conditions of the Recapitalization. The Company anticipates that Bear State’s investment will take place during the second quarter of 2011, subject to the conditions as set forth in the Investment Agreement. However, if the Bear State investment transaction does not close as planned, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. The OTS also could direct us to seek a merger partner or to liquidate the Bank. Our certificate of incorporation makes available additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without further action by the stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or the NASDAQ Capital Market requirements. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to stockholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, our stockholders may not be permitted to invest in future 43 Table of Contents issuances of our common stock. Under such circumstances, existing stockholders’ ownership percentage would be diluted. The large amount of liquidity on our balance sheet negatively impacts our ability to increase income. Because the Orders and our reduced borrowing capacity have limited our access to certain sources of funding, we have maintained significantly more liquidity on our balance sheet then we otherwise would. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents exceeded $36.4 million. The opportunity cost of maintaining liquidity at this level or at similar levels is substantial, because, at December 31, 2010, the cash and cash equivalents we have accumulated yielded substantially less than our other interest-earning assets. Until we raise capital to a level that satisfies the capital requirements of the Bank Order, we will need to maintain significantly higher levels of liquidity which will, in turn, negatively impact our ability to increase income. We have had losses in recent periods. We incurred net losses of $4.9 million and $46.2 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our ability to return to profitability will depend on whether we are able to reduce credit losses in the future, which will depend, in part, on whether economic conditions in our markets improve. There is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business plan or that even if we successfully implement our business plan, we will be able to curtail our losses now or in the future. If we continue to incur significant operating losses, our stock price may further decline. Even if we raise enough capital as a result of the Bear State Investment to allow us upon completion of the transaction to meet the capital levels mandated by the Bank Order, if we incur further operating losses we may in the future need to raise additional capital to maintain Bank capital levels that meet or exceed the levels mandated by the OTS. Future FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments may adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of approximately $350,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. The final rule permitted the FDIC to levy up to two additional special assessments of up to five basis points each during 2009 if the FDIC estimated that the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio will fall to a level that the FDIC believes would adversely affect public confidence or to a level that will be close to or below zero. No additional levies were assessed in 2009. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our FDIC general insurance premium expense increased compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule pursuant to which insured depository institutions will be required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 is based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 would be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period is calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. The Bank received an exemption from this prepayment requirement but will pay each quarterly assessment as it becomes due. The Bank received an exemption from this prepayment requirement due to its potential impact on the Bank’s liquidity position. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC finalized the rule to redefine the deposit insurance assessment base as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The base is defined as average consolidated total assets for the assessment period less average tangible equity capital with potential adjustments for unsecured debt, brokered deposits and depository institution debts. The FDIC also adopted a new rate schedule and suspended dividends indefinitely. In lieu of dividends, the FDIC adopted progressively lower assessment rate schedules that will take effect when the reserve ratio exceeds 1.15 percent, 2 percent and 2.5 percent. All changes and revised rates go into effect April 1, 2011. Based on the new assessment base and rate schedule, the Bank expects its FDIC insurance premiums to decline in 2011 compared to 2010. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years. Therefore, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. These developments have caused the premiums assessed on us by the FDIC to increase and materially increase FDIC insurance expense. We are unable to predict the effect in future periods if the economic crisis continues. 44 Table of Contents We are heavily regulated, and that regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the OTS and the FDIC. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and may restrict some of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates and locations of offices. The regulators’ interpretation and application of relevant regulations are beyond our control and may change rapidly and unpredictably. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors. The regulations to which we are subject may not always be in the best interest of investors. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Over the past several years, the U.S. financial regulators responding to directives of the Obama Administration and Congress have intervened on an unprecedented scale. New legislative proposals continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including with respect to compensation, interest rates and the effect of bankruptcy proceedings on consumer real property mortgages. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations and/or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulation to us. Compliance with current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Additionally, evolving regulations concerning executive compensation may impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, our regulators may elect to alter standards or the interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or to determine the adequacy of liquidity, certain risk management or other operational practices for financial services companies in a manner that impacts our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have extremely broad discretion in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets. If any regulatory agency’s assessment of the quality of our assets differs from our assessment, we may be required to take additional charges that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and stock price. Changes in regulatory requirements effective in the third quarter of 2010 have impacted fee revenue related to debit card and automated teller machine transactions. In November 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule that, effective July 1, 2010, prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions on new accounts, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. For accounts opened prior to July 1, 2010, the financial institution must not assess any fees or charges on a consumer’s account on or after August 15, 2010 for paying an ATM or one-time debit card transaction pursuant to the overdraft service, unless the institution has obtained the consumer’s affirmative consent. Consumers must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Because the Company’s customers must provide advance consent to the overdraft service for automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, the Company cannot provide any assurance as to the ultimate impact of this rule on the amount of overdraft/insufficient funds charges reported in future periods. Based on comparison of insufficient funds fee revenue from August through December 2010 to the same months in 2009, such revenues are down by approximately 10%. The U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010, which includes sweeping changes in the banking regulatory environment. The Dodd-Frank Act will change our primary regulator and may, among other things, restrict or increase the regulation of certain of our business activities and increase the cost of doing business. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that the legislation, or subsequent implementing regulations, will have upon our earnings and financial position. Key provisions of the legislation include (1) establishment of a Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify, monitor and address systemic risks posed by large, complex financial firms as well as products and activities that spread risk across firms; (2) a new orderly liquidation mechanism; (3) changes in bank regulatory structure, including merging our primary regulator, the OTS, with the Office of Comptroller of Currency within 12 months of enactment (subject to a six month extension); (4) regulation of investment advisers to private funds; (5) regulation of the insurance industry; (6) prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds; (7) regulation of over-the-counter derivatives markets; (8) a possible new fiduciary standard for investment advisers to retail customers; (9) regulation of credit rating agencies; (10) establishment of an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; (11) changes to the Federal Reserve System; (12) mortgage reform; (13) creation of a Financial Crisis Assessment Fund; and (14) establishment of new rules regarding executive compensation. The Dodd-Frank Act also amended the Electronic 45 Table of Contents Funds Transfer Act to authorize the Federal Reserve Bank to issue regulations regarding any interchange transaction fee that an issuer may receive or charge for an electronic debit transaction (a transaction in which a person uses a debit card). The amount of any interchange transaction fee that an issuer may receive or charge with respect to an electronic debit transaction must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. We could be materially and adversely affected if we or any of our officers or directors fail to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and face risks associated with investigations and proceedings by regulatory agencies, including those that we may believe to be immaterial. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with our policies. Any interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against us or our officers or directors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In particular, the Company had $83.1 million of investment securities at December 31, 2010, all of which were classified as available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the investment securities portfolio had a net unrealized loss of $2.3 million. A significant and prolonged increase in interest rates will have a material adverse effect on the fair value of our investment securities portfolio and, accordingly, our stockholders’ equity. There can be no assurance that our results of operations would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates due to a number of factors which can have a material impact on the Bank’s interest rate risk position. Such factors include among other items, call features and interest rate caps and floors on various assets and liabilities, prepayments, the current interest rates on assets and liabilities to be repriced in each period, and the relative changes in interest rates on different types of assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase its shares as a result of its participation in the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program-Capital Purchase Program. The Company and the Bank are prohibited from paying dividends or repurchasing common stock. On March 6, 2009, the Company issued to the Treasury the Series A Preferred Stock and the TARP Warrant for aggregate consideration of $16.5 million pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”). Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company may not declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company may not increase the dividends on its Common Stock above the amount of the last quarter cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008, which was $0.16 per share, without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. The Company is currently restricted from making or declaring any payments on its outstanding securities, including the dividends payable on the Series A Preferred Stock, without prior written non-objection from the OTS. The Company deferred payment of the quarterly dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock in all four quarters of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011. If the Company does not pay dividends payable on the Series A Preferred Stock for six or more periods, whether consecutive or not, the Purchase Agreement provides that the Company’s authorized number of directors will automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have the right to elect these two directors. These additional board seats will be terminated when the Company has paid all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. 46 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to repurchase its shares is also restricted under the terms of the Purchase Agreement. The Treasury’s consent generally is required for the Company to make any stock repurchases until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. Under the Company Order, the Company may not repurchase shares of its common stock without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. We are subject to restrictions on executive compensation as a result of our participation in the CPP. Under the terms of the CPP, the U.S. Treasury has imposed specified standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds any equity or warrants issued pursuant to the CPP. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, and the two next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: · ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; · required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; · prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and · agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation, have been imposed on our senior executive officers and most highly compensated employees. Those restrictions, and any future restrictions on executive compensation that may be adopted, could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain senior executive officers. We may incur increased employee benefit costs. The Bank is a participant in the multiemployer Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan (the “Plan”). The Plan is non-contributory and covers all qualified employees. Since the Plan is a multiemployer plan, contributions of participating employers are commingled and invested on a pooled basis without allocation to specific employers or employees. On April 30, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank elected to freeze the Plan effective July 1, 2010, eliminating all future benefit accruals for participants in the Plan and closing the Plan to new participants as of that date. After July 1, 2010, the Bank will continue to incur costs consisting of administration and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation insurance expenses as well as amortization charges based on the funding level of the Plan. The level of amortization charges is determined by the Plan’s funding shortfall, which is determined by comparing Plan liabilities to Plan assets. Based on the level of interest rates and Plan assets, the funding shortfall increased, resulting in increased amortization charges effective July 1, 2010. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, may be subject to changes in legislation. Further amortization charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition that may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have to invest in technology. 47 Table of Contents We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. The Bank has never incurred a material security breach nor encountered any significant down time with our outsourced partners. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 