Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes material risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our stock. This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks Related To Our Business We may not remain profitable. We had net income of $26.3 million and $3.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We may not be able to sustain such profitability in the future. Our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to: • attract and retain an adequate client base; • manage effectively a larger and more global business; • react to changes, including technological changes, in the markets we target or operate in; • deploy our services in additional markets or industry segments; • respond to competitive developments and challenges; • attract and retain experienced and talented personnel; and • establish strategic business relationships. We may not be able to do any of these successfully, and our failure to do so is likely to have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows, which could affect our ability to make payments on the notes. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing or pursue our growth strategy. After the acquisition of i2, we have $275 million of long-term debt. Our cash flow from operations, without the cash flow from i2, was $96.5 million and $47.1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our indebtedness could have significant adverse effects on our business, including the following: • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; 11 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • our high level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; • our high level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • our ability to fund a change of control offer may be limited. The instruments governing the notes contain, and the instruments governing any indebtedness we may incur in the future may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Payments on our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. As a result of financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, including our outstanding notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have sufficient cash resources in the future, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness that could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing our outstanding notes contains restrictions on our incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial additional secured or unsecured indebtedness, which may include a credit facility that may include financial ratio requirements and covenants. If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our leverage and debt service requirements would increase. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts, which may limit our business from developing in ways that we currently anticipate. Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have made and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. If product life cycles shorten or key technologies upon which we depend change rapidly, we may need to make high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by corresponding revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, it is difficult to estimate when, if ever, we will receive significant revenues from these investments. We may misjudge when software sales will be realized, which may materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business. Software license revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon contracts signed and the related shipment of software in that quarter. Because of the timing of our sales, we typically recognize the substantial majority of our software license revenues in the last weeks or days of the quarter. In addition, it is difficult to forecast the timing of large individual software license sales with a high degree of certainty due to the extended length of the sales cycle 12 Table of Contents and the generally more complex contractual terms that may be associated with such licenses that could result in the deferral of some or all of the revenue to future periods. Our customers and potential customers, especially for large individual software license sales, are increasingly requiring that their senior executives, board of directors and significant equity investors approve such purchases without the benefit of the direct input from our sales representatives. As a result, we may have less visibility into the progression of the selection and approval process throughout our sales cycles, which in turn makes it more difficult to predict the quarter in which individual sales will occur, especially in large sales opportunities. We are also at risk of having pending transactions abruptly terminated if the boards of directors or executive management of our customers decide to withdraw funding from information technology projects as a result of a deep or prolonged global economic downturn and credit crisis. If this type of behavior becomes commonplace among existing or potential customers then we may face a significant reduction in new software sales. In the last year we have seen an increasing number of our prospects indicate to us that they can sign agreements prior to the end of our quarter, when in fact their approval process precludes them from being able to complete the transaction until after the end of our quarter. In addition, because of the current economic downturn, we may need to increase our use of alternate licensing models that reduce the amount of software revenue we recognize upon shipment of our software. Each of these circumstances add to the difficulty of accurately forecasting the timing of deals. We expect to experience continued difficulty in accurately forecasting the timing of deals. If we receive any significant cancellation or deferral of customer orders, or if we are unable to conclude license negotiations by the end of a fiscal quarter, our quarterly operating results will be lower than anticipated. In addition to the above, we may be unable to recognize revenues associated with certain projects assumed in the acquisition of i2 in accordance with our expectations. i2 historically recognized a significant portion of revenues from sales of software solutions and development projects over time using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Failure to complete project phases in accordance with the overall project plan can create variability in our expected revenue streams if we are not able to recognize revenues related to particular projects because of delays in development. We may face liability if our products are defective or if we make errors implementing our products. Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated. As a result, they could contain design defects, software errors or security problems that are difficult to detect and correct. In particular, it is common for complex software programs such as ours to contain undetected errors, particularly in early versions of our products. Errors are discovered only after the product has been implemented and used over time with different computer systems and in a variety of applications and environments. Despite extensive testing, we have in the past discovered certain defects or errors in our products or custom configurations only after our software products have been used by many clients. In addition, implementation of our products may involve customer-specific configuration by third parties or us, and may involve integration with systems developed by third parties. Our clients may occasionally experience difficulties integrating our products with other hardware or software in their particular environment that are unrelated to defects in our products. Such defects, errors or difficulties may cause future delays in product introductions, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or impair customer satisfaction with our products. If clients experience significant problems with implementation of our products or are otherwise dissatisfied with their functionality or performance, or if our products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, our market reputation could suffer, and we could be subject to claims for significant damages. There can be no assurances that the contractual provisions in our customer agreements that limit our liability and exclude consequential damages will be enforced. Any such damages claim could impair our market reputation and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We may have difficulty implementing our software products, which would harm our business and relations with customers. Our software products are complex and perform or directly affect mission-critical functions across many different functional and geographic areas of the enterprise. Consequently, implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. The implementation time for certain of our applications can be longer and more complicated than our other applications as they typically: • involve more significant integration efforts in order to complete implementation; • require the execution of implementation procedures in multiple layers of software; • offer a customer more deployment options and other configuration choices; • require more training; and • may involve third party integrators to change business processes concurrent with the implementation of the software. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or by us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with our customers, or damage to our reputation. Our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of our failure to meet contractual obligations under fixed-price contracts within our estimated cost structure. A portion of our consulting services revenues are derived under fixed price arrangements that require us to provide identified deliverables for a fixed fee. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 15% of our consulting services revenues were derived under fixed price arrangements. Our failure to meet our contractual obligations under fixed price contracts within our estimated cost structure may result in our having to record the cost related to the performance of services in the period that the services were rendered, but delay the timing of revenue recognition to a future period in which the obligations are met, which may cause our operating results to suffer. We may have difficulty developing our new managed services offering, which could reduce our future revenue growth opportunities. We have limited experience operating our applications for our customers under our Managed Services offering, either on a hosted or remote basis. We began these services in late 2009 and through December 31, 2009 they represented a very small part of our revenues. We have hired management personnel with significant expertise in operating a managed services business and we have begun to make capital expenditures for this business. We may encounter difficulties developing our Managed Services into a mature services offering, or the rate of adoption by our customers may be slower than anticipated. If our Managed Services business does not grow or operate as expected, it could divert management resources, harm our strategy and reduce opportunities for future revenue growth. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. We rely primarily on patent, copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time-consuming. Unauthorized parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products, circumvent our security devices or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. 14 Table of Contents We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights, which would result in an increase in litigation and other related costs. We periodically receive notices or claims from others that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, especially patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the functionality of products overlap and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or involve settlement payments, either of which could be significant; • require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose access to critical third-party software or technology, our costs could increase and the introduction of new products and product enhancements could be delayed, potentially hurting our competitive position. We license and integrate technology from third parties in certain of our software products. Examples of third-party software embedded in our products include the following: the WebLogic application from BEA Systems, Inc. (acquired by Oracle) or the IBM Websphere applications for use in most of the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform solutions; the Data Integrator application from Business Object S.A (acquired by SAP), which is used in certain of the products acquired from Manugistics, Cognos (acquired by IBM) for use in JDA Reporting and JDA Analytics; iLog CPlex (acquired by IBM) for use in certain of our Transportation and Network Optimization applications; the Uniface client/server application development technology from Compuware, Inc. for use in Portfolio Merchandise Management; certain applications from Silvon Software, Inc. for use in Merchandise Performance Analysis and Java technologies which are owned by Sun Microsystems but are currently subject to a proposed acquisition by Oracle and Clearcase (acquired by IBM) for use in certain of our Demand Management, Allocation, Replenishment and Fulfillment, Transportation and Logistics Management and Store systems applications. Our third-party licenses generally require us to pay royalties and fulfill confidentiality obligations. We also resell Oracle database licenses. If we are unable to continue to license any of this third party software, or if the third party licensors do not adequately maintain or update their products, we would face delays in the releases of our software until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our software products. These delays, if they occur, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is also possible that intellectual property acquired from third parties through acquisitions, mergers, licenses, or otherwise obtained may not have been adequately protected, or infringes another parties intellectual property rights. We may face difficulties in our highly competitive markets, which may make it difficult to attract and retain clients and grow revenues. The supply chain software market continues to consolidate and this has resulted in larger, new competitors with significantly greater financial and marketing resources and more numerous technical resources than we 15 Table of Contents possess. This could create a significant competitive advantage for our competitors and negatively impact our business. It is difficult to estimate what long term effect these acquisitions will have on our competitive environment. We have encountered competitive situations with certain enterprise software vendors where, in order to encourage customers to purchase licenses of their specific applications and gain market share, we suspect they have also offered to license at no charge certain of their retail and/or supply chain software applications that compete with our solutions. If large competitors such as Oracle, SAP AG and other large private companies are willing to license their retail, supply chain and/or other applications at no charge, it may result in a more difficult competitive environment for our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully for customers or acquisition targets against our current or future competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We encounter competitive products from a different set of vendors in many of our primary product categories. We believe that while our markets are subject to intense competition, the number of competitors in many of our application markets has decreased over the past five years. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are feature and functionality, the depth of planning and optimization provided and available deployment models. We compete on the basis of the reputation of our products, the performance and scalability of our products, the quality of our customer base, our ability to implement, our retail and supply chain industry expertise, our lower total cost of ownership, technology platform and quality of customer support across multiple regions for global customers. The competitive markets in which we compete could put pressure on us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and would adversely affect our operating results. Our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new license fees. Our competitors may offer a lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. Any broadly-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. We have increased our off-shore resources through our CoE. However, our consulting services business model is currently largely based on relatively high-cost on-shore resources and, although it has started to increase, utilization of CoE consulting services resources in the Hyderabad facility has been lower than planned. We believe the primary reason for this lower-than-expected utilization may be due to slower internal adoption of our planned mix of on-shore/off-shore services. Further, we face competition from low-cost off-shore service providers and smaller boutique consulting firms. This competition is expected to continue and our on-shore hourly rates are much higher than those offered by these competitors. As these competitors gain more experience with our products, the quality gap between our service offerings and theirs may diminish, resulting in decreased revenues and profits from our consulting practice. In addition, we face increased competition for services work from ex-employees of JDA who offer services directly or through lower cost boutique consulting firms. These competitive service providers have taken business from JDA and while some are still relatively small compared to our consulting services business, if they grow successfully, it will be largely at our expense. We continue to attempt to improve our competitive position by further developing and increasing the utilization of our own offshore consulting services group at our CoE facility in Hyderabad, and this should be enhanced by the CoE facility in Bangalore that we obtained in the i2 acquisition since it has been in operation for a longer period of time; however, we cannot guarantee these efforts will be successful or enhance our ability to compete. There are many risks associated with international operations, which may negatively impact our overall business and profitability. International revenues represented approximately 40% of our total revenues in the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, or 40%, 40% and 41% on a pro forma basis, after giving effect to acquisition of i2, and we expect to generate a significant portion of our revenues from international sales in the future. 16 Table of Contents Our international business operations are subject to risks associated with international activities, including: • currency fluctuations, the impact of which could significantly increase as a result of: Arrow Pointing Right our continuing expansion of the CoE in India; and Arrow Pointing Right the acquisition of i2, as the majority of i2’s international expenses, including the compensation expense of over 65% of its employees, will be denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar; • higher operating costs due to the need to comply with local laws or regulations; • lower margins on consulting services; • competing against low-cost service providers; • unexpected changes in employment and other regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs and risks of adapting our products for use in foreign countries; • longer payment cycles in certain countries; • potentially negative tax consequences; • difficulties in staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions; • ability to negotiate and have enforced favorable contract provisions; • repatriation of earnings; • the challenges of finding qualified management for our international operations; • general economic conditions in international markets; and • developing and deploying the skills required to service our broad set of product offerings across the markets we serve. We expect that an increasing portion of our international software license, consulting services and maintenance services revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. We use derivative financial instruments, primarily forward exchange contracts, to manage a majority of the foreign currency exchange exposure associated with net short-term foreign denominated assets and liabilities which exist as part of our ongoing business operations but we do not hedge ongoing or anticipated revenues, costs and expenses, including the additional costs we expect to incur with the expansion of our CoE in Hyderabad, India. We cannot guarantee that any currency exchange strategy would be successful in avoiding exchange-related losses. If we experience expansion delays or difficulties with our Center of Excellence in India, our costs may increase and our margins may decrease. We are continuing the expansion of our CoE facilities located in Hyderabad and Bangalore, India. In order to take advantage of cost efficiencies associated with India’s lower wage scale, we expanded the CoE during 2008 beyond a research and development center to include consulting services, customer support and information technology resources. We believe that a properly functioning CoE will be important in achieving desired long-term operating results. Although we have not yet fully utilized certain of the service capabilities of the CoE, we believe progress is being made. We are satisfied with the progress of our product development, information technology and other administrative support functions at the CoE. We are also beginning to gain leverage from the CoE in our consulting services business, and we expect the overall share of consulting services work performed by the CoE will continue to increase. We also believe there are additional opportunities to further leverage the CoE in our customer support organization. If we encounter any delays in our efforts to increase the utilization of our services resources at 17 Table of Contents the CoE it may have an overall effect of reducing our consulting services margins and negatively impacting our operating results. Additional risks associated with our CoE strategy include, but are not limited to: • the slower-than-expected rate of internal adoption of our planned mix of on-shore/off-shore services; • unexpected increases in labor costs in India; • increased risk of associate attrition due to the improvement of the Indian economy and job market; • terrorist activities in the region; • inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel with the necessary skill sets to meet our needs; • economic, security and political conditions in India; • inadequate facilities or communications infrastructure; and • local law or regulatory issues. In addition, i2 conducted a large portion of its software solutions development and services operations in Bangalore, India and the distributed nature of its development and consulting resources could create increased operational challenges and complications for us based upon the above factors. Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our software and related services. Historically, events such as terrorist attacks, natural catastrophes and contagious diseases have created uncertainties in our markets and caused disruptions in our sales cycles. A regional and/or global change in the economy or financial markets, such as the current severe global economic downturn, could result in delay or cancellation of customer purchases. A downturn in the economy, such as the current global recession, may cause an increase in customer bankruptcy reorganizations, liquidations and consolidations, which may negatively impact our accounts receivables and expected future revenues from such customers. Current adverse conditions in credit markets, reductions in consumer confidence and spending and the fluctuating commodities and/or fuel costs are examples of changes that have delayed or terminated certain customer purchases. These adverse conditions have delayed or terminated certain of our customer deals. A further worsening or broadening or protracted extension of these conditions would have a significant negative impact on our operating results. In addition to the potential negative impact of the economic downturn on our software sales, customers are increasingly seeking to reduce their maintenance fees or to avoid price increases. This has resulted in elevated levels of maintenance attrition in recent periods. A prolonged economic downturn may further increase our attrition rates, particularly if many of our larger maintenance customers cease operations. Because maintenance is our largest source of revenue, increases in our attrition rates can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Weak and uncertain economic conditions could also impair our customers’ ability to pay for our products or services. Any of these factors could adversely impact our quarterly or annual operating results and our financial condition. We may be unable to retain key personnel, which could materially impact our ability to further develop our business. While the rate of retention of our associates is high compared to industry averages, our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled associates and the loss of certain key individuals to any of our competitors could adversely impact our business. In addition, our performance depends in large part on the continued performance of our executive officers and other key employees, particularly the performance and services of James D. Armstrong, our Chairman, and Hamish N. Brewer, our Chief Executive Officer. Following our acquisition of i2, our employees (including our employees who were former employees of i2) may experience uncertainty as a result of integration activities, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We also must continue to attract and motivate our other employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which effort may be adversely affected as a result of the uncertainty and difficulties with integrating i2 with JDA. 18 Table of Contents We do not have in place “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Brewer or other key executive officers or employees without a successor in place, or any difficulties associated with a successor, could negatively affect our financial performance. We may have difficulty integrating future acquisitions, which would reduce the anticipated benefits of those transactions. We intend to continually evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies, including those that are significant in size and scope. In pursuit of our strategy to acquire complementary products, we have completed eleven acquisitions over the past twelve years, including our acquisitions of i2 in January 2010 and of Manugistics in July 2006. The risks we commonly encounter in acquisitions include: • if we incur significant debt to finance a future acquisition and our combined business does not perform as expected, we may have difficulty complying with debt covenants; • if we use our stock to make a future acquisition, it will dilute existing shareholders; • we may have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired company; • the challenge and additional investment involved to integrate new products and technologies into our sales and marketing process; • we may have difficulty effectively integrating any acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies, particularly where such products reside on different technology platforms, or overlap with our products; • our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition and integration issues; • customer purchases and projects may become delayed until we publish a combined product roadmap, and once we do publish the roadmap it may disrupt additional purchases and projects; • the costs and complexity of integrating the internal information technology infrastructure of each acquired business with ours may be greater than expected and require capital investments; • we may not be able to retain key technical and managerial personnel from an acquired business; • we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals for any acquired and combined businesses; • we may have difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration period following a future acquisition; • our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products could be adversely affected; • our relationships with employees and customers could be impaired; • our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, legal or tax contingencies, customer obligations and product development, among other things; • as successor we may be subject to certain liabilities of our acquisition targets; and • we may be required to sustain significant exit or impairment charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. Our failure to effectively integrate any future acquisition would adversely affect the benefit of such transaction, including potential synergies or sales growth opportunities, to the extent in or the time frame anticipated. 19 Table of Contents Government contracts are subject to unique costs, terms, regulations, claims and penalties that could reduce their profitability to us. As a result of the acquisition of Manugistics, we acquired a number of contracts with the U.S. government. Government contracts entail many unique risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • early termination of contracts by the government; • costly and complex competitive bidding process; • required extensive use of subcontractors, whose work may be deficient or not performed in a timely manner; • significant penalties associated with employee misconduct in the highly regulated government marketplace; • changes or delays in government funding that could negatively impact contracts; and • onerous contractual provisions unique to the government such as “most favored customer” provisions. These risks may make the contracts less profitable or cause them to be terminated, which would adversely affect the business. If we do not identify, adopt and develop product architecture that is compatible with emerging industry standards, our products will be less attractive to customers. The markets for our software products are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We continuously evaluate new technologies and when appropriate implement into our products advanced technology such as our current JDA Enterprise Architecture platform effort. However, if we fail in our product development efforts to accurately address in a timely manner, evolving industry standards, new technology advancements or important third-party interfaces or product architectures, sales of our products and services may suffer. Our software products can be licensed with a variety of popular industry standard platforms and are authored in various development environments using different programming languages and underlying databases and architectures. There may be future or existing platforms that achieve popularity in the marketplace that may not be compatible with our software product design. Developing and maintaining consistent software product performance across various technology platforms could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be impacted by shifts in consumer preferences affecting the manufacturing, distribution and retail supply chain that could reduce our revenues. We are dependent upon and derive most of our revenue from the supply chain linking manufacturers, distributors and retailers to consumers, or consumer products supply chain vertical. If a shift in spending occurs in this vertical market that results in decreased demand for the types of solutions we sell, it would be difficult to adjust our strategies and solution offerings because of our dependence on these markets. If the consumer products supply chain vertical experiences a decline in business, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business prospects, particularly if it is a prolonged decline. The current economic downturn has caused declines in certain areas of the consumer products supply chain. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate or the failure rates of customers in our target markets increase, we may experience an overall decline in sales that would adversely impact our business. Risks Related to the Acquisition of i2 We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of i2, including potential synergies, due to challenges associated with integrating the companies or other factors. The success of our acquisition of i2 will depend in part on the success of our management in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of i2 with JDA. Management’s inability to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of JDA and i2 or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies 20 Table of Contents will require substantial attention from our management, particularly in light of the geographically dispersed operations of the two companies, which could further harm our results of operations. The challenges involved in integration include: • integrating the two companies’ operations, processes, people, technologies, products and services; • coordinating and integrating sales and marketing and research and development functions; • demonstrating to our clients that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in business focus, products and service deliverables (including customer satisfaction); • assimilating and retaining the personnel of both companies and integrating the business cultures, operations, systems and clients of both companies; and • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations and administrative functions. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of i2 in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including potential synergies or sales or growth opportunities, to the extent or in the time frame anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition are based on assumptions and current expectations, with limited actual experience, and assume that we will successfully integrate and reallocate resources among our facilities without unanticipated costs and that our efforts will not have unforeseen or unintended consequences. In addition, our ability to realize the benefits and synergies of the business combination could be adversely impacted to the extent that JDA’s or i2’s relationships with existing or potential clients, suppliers or strategic partners is adversely affected as a consequence of the transaction, as a result of further weakening of global economic conditions, or by practical or legal constraints on its ability to combine operations. Furthermore, a portion of our ability to realize synergies and cost savings depends on our ability to continue to migrate work from certain of our on-shore facilities to our off-shore facilities. If we are unable to successfully execute on any of our identified business opportunities or other business opportunities that we determines to pursue, we may not achieve the benefits of the acquisition and our business may be harmed. As a result of our acquisition of i2, we have approximately 3,000 employees. In order to pursue business opportunities, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure, client initiatives and operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by one or more of the following factors: • the ability of our technology and hardware, suppliers and service providers to perform as we expect; • our ability to execute our strategy and continue to operate a larger, more diverse business efficiently on a global basis; • our ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to effectively manage our employee costs and other expenses; • our ability to retain and grow revenues and profits from our clients and the current portfolio of business with each client; • technology and application failures and outages, security breaches or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our clients; • our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving service and pricing demands of the markets we serve; and • our ability to raise additional capital to fund our long-term growth plans. Our failure to adequately address the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. 21 Table of Contents i2 has been, and we may be, subject to product quality and performance claims, which could seriously harm our business. From time to time prior to the acquisition, customers of i2 made claims pertaining to the quality and performance of i2’s software and services, citing a variety of issues. Whether customer claims regarding the quality and performance of i2’s products and services are founded or unfounded, they may adversely impact customer demand and affect JDA’s market perception, its products and services. Any such damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related To Our Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and are expected to continue to vary in the future. If our quarterly or annual operating results, particularly our software revenues, fail to meet management’s or analysts’ expectations, the price of our stock could decline. Many factors may cause these fluctuations, including: • The difficulty of predicting demand for our software products and services, including the size and timing of individual contracts and our ability to recognize revenue with respect to contracts signed in a given quarter, particularly with respect to our larger customers; • Changes in the length and complexity of our sales cycle, including changes in the contract approval process at our customers and potential customers that now require a formal proposal process, a longer decision making period and additional layers of customer approval, often including authorization of the transaction by senior executives, boards of directors and significant equity investors; • Competitive pricing pressures and competitive success or failure on significant transactions; • Customer order deferrals resulting from the anticipation of new products, economic uncertainty, disappointing operating results by the customer, management changes, corporate reorganizations or otherwise; • The timing of new software product and technology introductions and enhancements to our software products or those of our competitors, and market acceptance of our new software products and technology; • Lack of desired features and functionality in our individual products or our suite of products; • Changes in the number, size or timing of new and renewal maintenance contracts or cancellations; • Unplanned changes in our operating expenses; • Changes in the mix of domestic and international revenues, or expansion or contraction of international operations; • Our ability to complete fixed price consulting contracts within budget; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Lower-than-anticipated utilization in our consulting services group as a result of increased competition, reduced levels of software sales, reduced implementation times for our products, changes in the mix of demand for our software products, mergers and consolidations within our customer base, or other reasons; and • Our limited ability to reduce costs in the short term to compensate for any unanticipated shortfall in product or services revenue. Charges to earnings resulting from past or future acquisitions, including our acquisition of i2, or internal reorganizations may also adversely affect our operating results. Under the acquisition method of accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon 22 Table of Contents assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. In addition, we have not completed the valuation analysis and calculations necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocation. In addition to goodwill, the final purchase price allocation may include allocations to intangible assets such as trademarks and trade names, in-process research and development, developed technology and customer-related assets. As a result, we are unable to forecast at this time certain operating results that will ultimately impact our GAAP results for 2010, including the amount of potential amortization on acquired intangibles and the amount of depreciation on acquired property and equipment. As a result, any of the following or other factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: • Loss on impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets due to economic conditions or an extended decline in the market price of our stock below book value; • Changes in the useful lives or the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; • Accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities, in which case the related charges could be required to be included in earnings in the period in which the accrual is determined to the extent it is identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; • Charges to income to eliminate certain JDA pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure; and • Changes in deferred tax assets and valuation allowances. In addition, fluctuations in the price of our common stock may expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Furthermore, any settlement or adverse determination of these lawsuits could subject us to significant liabilities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation, which authorizes the issuance of “blank check preferred” stock and Delaware state corporate laws which restrict business combinations between a corporation and 15% or more owners of outstanding voting stock of the corporation for a three-year period, individually or in combination, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a JDA stockholder may consider favorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments — None 