Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes material risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our stock. This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of December 31, 2008 and for the twelve months then ended contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks Related To Our Business We may misjudge when software sales will be realized Software license revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon contracts signed and the related shipment of software in that quarter. Because of the timing of our sales, we typically recognize the substantial majority of our software license revenues in the last weeks or days of the quarter. In addition, it is difficult to forecast the timing of 12 Table of Contents large individual software license sales with a high degree of certainty due to the extended length of the sales cycle and the generally more complex contractual terms that may be associated with such licenses that could result in the deferral of some or all of the revenue to future periods. Our customers and potential customers, especially for large individual software license sales, are increasingly requiring that their senior executives, board of directors and significant equity investors approve such purchases without the benefit of the direct input from our sales representatives. As a result, we may have less visibility into the progression of the selection and approval process throughout our sales cycles, which in turn makes it more difficult to predict the quarter in which individual sales will occur, especially in large sales opportunities. We are also at risk of having pending transactions abruptly terminated if the Boards or executive management of our customers decide to withdraw funding from IT projects as a result of the deep global economic downturn and credit crisis. If this type of behavior becomes commonplace amongst existing or potential customers then we may face a significant reduction in new software sales. We believe that an increasing number of our prospects may indicate to us that they can sign agreements prior to the end of our quarter, when in fact their approval process precludes them from being able to complete the transaction until after the end of our quarter. In addition, because of the current economic downturn, we may need to increase our use of alternate licensing models that reduce the amount of software revenue we recognize upon shipment of our software. These circumstances add to the difficulty of accurately forecasting the timing of deals. We expect to experience continued difficulty in accurately forecasting the timing of deals. If we receive any significant cancellation or deferral of customer orders, or if we are unable to conclude license negotiations by the end of a fiscal quarter, our quarterly operating results will be lower than anticipated. Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue results and profitability Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our software and related services. Historically, events such as terrorist attacks, natural catastrophes and contagious diseases have created uncertainties in our markets and caused disruptions in our sales cycles. A regional and/or global change in the economy or financial markets, such as the current severe global economic downturn, could result in delay or cancellation of customer purchases. Current adverse conditions in credit markets, reductions in consumer confidence and spending and the fluctuating cost of fuel and commodities and their effects on the United States and global economies and markets are examples of negative changes that have delayed or terminated certain customer purchases. These adverse conditions have delayed or terminated certain of our customer deals. A further worsening or broadening, or protracted extension of these conditions would have a significant negative impact on our operating results. In addition to the potential negative impact of the economic downturn on our software sales, customers are increasingly seeking to reduce their maintenance fees or to avoid price increases. Although we have maintained our maintenance attrition rates at approximately the same levels as our historical averages, a prolonged economic downturn may increase our attrition rates, particularly if many of our larger maintenance customers cease operations. Weak and uncertain economic conditions could also impair our customers’ ability to pay for our products or services. Any of these factors could adversely impact our quarterly or annual operating results and our financial condition. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by corresponding revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, it is difficult to estimate when, if ever, we will receive significant revenues from these investments. We may face liability if our products are defective or if we make errors implementing our products Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated. As a result, they usually contain design defects, software errors or security problems that are difficult to detect and correct. In addition, implementation of our products may involve customer-specific configuration by third parties or us, and may involve integration with 13 Table of Contents systems developed by third parties. In particular, it is common for complex software programs such as ours to contain undetected errors, particularly in early versions of our products. They are discovered only after the product has been implemented and used over time with different computer systems and in a variety of applications and environments. Despite extensive testing, we have in the past discovered certain defects or errors in our products or custom configurations only after our software products have been used by many clients. In addition, our clients may occasionally experience difficulties integrating our products with other hardware or software in their particular environment that are unrelated to defects in our products. Such defects, errors or difficulties may cause future delays in product introductions, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or impair customer satisfaction with our products. We believe that significant investments in research and development are required to remain competitive, and that speed to market is critical to our success. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to enhance our existing products through internal development and strategic partnering, internally develop new products which leverage both our existing customers and sales force, and strategically acquire complementary solutions that add functionality for specific business processes to an enterprise-wide system. If clients experience significant problems with implementation of our products or are otherwise dissatisfied with their functionality or performance, or if they fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, our market reputation could suffer, and we could be subject to claims for significant damages. There can be no assurances that the contractual provisions in our customer agreements which limit our liability and exclude consequential damages will be enforced. Any such damages claim could impair our market reputation and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have difficulty implementing our solutions Our software products are complex and perform or directly affect mission-critical functions across many different functional and geographic areas of the enterprise. Consequently, implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. The implementation time for certain of our applications, including Merchandise Operations Systems, Store Systems, Demand Management, Allocation, Replenishment & Fulfillment and Revenue Management solutions can be longer and more complicated than our other applications as they typically (i) involve more significant integration efforts in order to complete implementation, (ii) require the execution of implementation procedures in multiple layers of software, (iii) offer a customer more deployment options and other configuration choices, (iv) require more training and (v) may involve third party integrators to change business processes concurrent with the implementation of the software. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with our customers, or damage to our reputation. In addition, approximately 15% of our consulting services revenues are derived under fixed price arrangements that require us to provide identified deliverables for a fixed fee. If we are unable to meet our contractual obligations under fixed price contracts within our estimated cost structure, our operating results could suffer. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality procedures, contractual restrictions and patents to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts, these measures only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products, circumvent our security devices or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States or are not adequately enforced in a timely manner. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, especially patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the functionality of products overlap 14 Table of Contents and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose access to critical third-party software or technology, our costs could increase and the introduction of new products and product enhancements could be delayed, potentially hurting our competitive position We license and integrate technology from third parties in certain of our software products. Examples of third party software imbedded in our products include the following: the WebLogic application from BEA Systems, Inc. (acquired by Oracle) or the IBM Websphere applications for use in most of the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform solutions; the Data Integrator application from Business Object S.A (acquired by SAP), which is used in certain of the products acquired from Manugistics, Cognos (acquired by IBM) for use in JDA Reporting and JDA Analytics; the Uniface client/server application development technology from Compuware, Inc. for use in Portfolio Merchandise Management; and certain applications from Silvon Software, Inc. for use in Merchandise Performance Analysis. Our third party licenses generally require us to pay royalties and fulfill confidentiality obligations. We also resell Oracle database licenses. If we are unable to continue to license any of this third party software, or if the third party licensors do not adequately maintain or update their products, we would face delays in the releases of our software until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our software products. These delays, if they occur, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is also possible that intellectual property acquired from third parties through acquisitions, mergers, licenses or otherwise obtained may not have been adequately protected, or infringes another parties intellectual property rights. We may face difficulties in our highly competitive markets The supply chain software market continues to consolidate and this has resulted in larger, new competitors with significantly greater financial, marketing resources and more numerous technical resources than we possess. This could create a significant competitive advantage for our competitors and negatively impact our business. It is difficult to estimate what long term effect these acquisitions will have on our competitive environment. We have encountered competitive situations with certain enterprise software vendors where, in order to encourage customers to purchase licenses of their specific applications and gain market share, we suspect they have also offered to license at no charge certain of its retail and/or supply chain software applications that compete with our solutions. If large competitors such as Oracle, SAP AG and other large private companies are willing to license their retail, supply chain and/or other applications at no charge it may result in a more difficult competitive environment for our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully for customers or acquisition targets against our current or future competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We encounter competitive products from a different set of vendors in many of our primary product categories. We believe that while our markets are subject to intense competition, the number of competitors in many of our application markets has decreased over the past five years. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are feature and functionality, the depth of planning and optimization provided, available deployment models, the reputation of our products, the performance and scalability of our products, the quality of customer 15 Table of Contents base, the perception of our vendor viability, our ability to implement, our retail and supply chain industry expertise, our lower total cost of ownership, technology platform and quality of customer support across multiple regions for global customers. The competitive markets in which we compete could put pressure on us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and would adversely affect our operating results. Our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new license fees. Our competitors may offer a lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. Any broadly-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Although we have increased our off-shore resources through our CoE in India, our consulting services business model is currently largely based on relatively high cost onshore resources and we are continuously faced with competition from low cost off-shore service providers and smaller boutique consulting firms. This competition is expected to continue and while we continue to successfully command premium rates for our on-shore services, our on-shore hourly rates are much higher than those offered by these competitors. As these competitors gain more experience with our products, the quality gap between our service offerings and theirs is diminishing and has resulted in decreased revenues and profits from our consulting practice. In addition, we face increased competition for services work from ex-employees of JDA who offer services directly or through lower cost boutique consulting firms. These competitive service providers have taken business from JDA and while some are still relatively small compared to our consulting services business, if they grow successfully, it will be largely at our expense. We continue to attempt to improve our competitive position by developing our own offshore consulting services group at our CoE; however, we cannot guarantee these efforts will be successful or enhance our ability to compete. There are many risks associated with international operations International revenues represented 40% of our total revenues in 2008 as compared to 40% and 39% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our international business operations are subject to risks associated with international activities, including: • Currency fluctuations, which could significantly increase with our continuing expansion of the CoE in India; • Higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations; • Lower consulting margins; • Competing against low-cost service providers; • Unexpected changes in employment and other regulatory requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries; • Potentially negative tax consequences; • Difficulties in staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; • Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions; • Ability to negotiate and have enforced favorable contract provisions; • Repatriation of earnings; • The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • Anti-American sentiment due to the war with Iraq, and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain regions; 16 Table of Contents • The challenges of finding qualified management for our international operations; • General economic conditions in international markets; and • Developing and deploying the skills required to service our broad set of product offerings across the markets we serve. We expect that an increasing portion of our international software license, consulting services and maintenance services revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. We use derivative financial instruments, primarily forward exchange contracts, to manage a majority of the foreign currency exchange exposure associated with net short-term foreign denominated assets and liabilities which exist as part of our ongoing business operations but we do not hedge ongoing or anticipated revenues, costs and expenses, including the additional costs we expect to incur with the expansion of the CoE in India. We cannot guarantee that any currency exchange strategy would be successful in avoiding exchange-related losses. We may experience expansion delays or difficulties with our CoE in India We are continuing the expansion of our CoE in Hyderabad, India. In order to take advantage of cost efficiencies associated with India’s lower wage scale, we expanded the CoE during 2008 beyond a research and development center to include consulting services, customer support and information technology resources. We believe that a properly functioning CoE will be important in achieving desired long-term operating results. Although we are currently on schedule with our CoE hiring and training plans, delays in expanding the CoE or operating difficulties could impair our ability to develop, implement and support our products, which would likely negatively impact our operating results. Potential reasons for delays or difficulties, include, but are not limited to: • Unexpected increases in labor costs in India; • Terrorist activities in the region; • Inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel with the necessary skill sets to meet our needs; • Economic, security and political conditions in India; • Slower than expected acceptance of our services offerings by our customers; • Inadequate facilities or communications infrastructure; and • Local law or regulatory issues. We are dependent on key personnel While the rate of retention of our associates is high compared to industry averages, our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled associates and the loss of certain key individuals to any of our competitors could adversely impact our business. In addition, our performance depends in large part on the continued performance of our executive officers and other key employees, particularly the performance and services of James D. Armstrong our Chairman and Hamish N. J. Brewer our Chief Executive Officer. We do not have in place “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Brewer, or other key executive officers or employees without a successor in place, or any difficulties associated with a successor, could negatively affect our financial performance. We may have difficulty integrating acquisitions We continually evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies, including those that are significant in size and scope. In pursuit of our strategy to acquire complementary products, 17 Table of Contents we have completed ten acquisitions over the past ten years, the most recent being Manugistics Group, Inc. in July 2006. The risks we commonly encounter in acquisitions include: • If we incur significant debt to finance an acquisition and our combined business does not perform as expected, we may have difficulty complying with debt covenants; • We may have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • The challenge to integrate new products and technologies into our sales and marketing process; • We may have difficulty effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies, particularly where such products reside on different technology platforms, or overlap with our products; • Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition and integration issues; • The costs and complexity of integrating the internal IT infrastructure may be greater than expected and require capital investments; • We may not be able to retain key technical and managerial personnel from the acquired business; • We may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • We may have difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • Our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products could be adversely affected; • Our relationships with employees and customers could be impaired; • Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, legal or tax contingencies, customer obligations and product development, among other things; • As successor we may be subject to certain liabilities of our acquisition targets; and • We may be required to sustain significant exit or impairment charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. We may have difficulty completing acquisitions due to adverse conditions in the credit markets Until the credit markets stabilize and return to historically normal conditions, it may be difficult for us to make acquisitions using debt. If we are unable to use debt to make acquisitions, our ability to achieve significant growth may be adversely impacted. Government contracts are subject to unique costs, terms, regulations, claims and penalties As a result of the Manugistics acquisition, we acquired a number of contracts with the government. Government contracts entail many unique risks, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) early termination of contracts by the Government; (ii) costly and complex competitive bidding process; (iii) required extensive use of subcontractors, whose work may be deficient or not performed in a timely manner; (iv) significant penalties associated with employee misconduct in the highly regulated Government marketplace; (v) changes or delays in Government funding that could negatively impact contracts; and (vi) onerous contractual provisions unique to the Government such as “most favored customer” provisions. Risks Related To Our Industry It may be difficult to identify, adopt and develop product architecture that is compatible with emerging industry standards The markets for our software products are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We 18 Table of Contents continuously evaluate new technologies and when appropriate implement into our products advanced technology such as our current JDA Enterprise Architecture platform effort. However, if we fail in our product development efforts to accurately address in a timely manner, evolving industry standards, new technology advancements or important third-party interfaces or product architectures, sales of our products and services may suffer. Our software products can be licensed with a variety of popular industry standard platforms and are authored in various development environments using different programming languages and underlying databases and architectures. There may be future or existing platforms that achieve popularity in the marketplace that may not be compatible with our software product design. Developing and maintaining consistent software product performance across various technology platforms could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be impacted by shifts in the consumer products supply chain We are dependent upon and derive most of our revenue from the consumer products supply chain vertical. If a shift in spending occurs in this vertical market that results in decreased demand for the types of solutions we sell, it would be difficult to adjust our strategies and solution offerings because of our dependence on this market. If the consumer products supply and demand chain vertical experiences a decline in business, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business prospects, particularly if it is a prolonged decline. The current economic downturn is causing declines in certain areas of the consumer products supply chain. In particular, we are experiencing increased cancellations and deferrals of software projects in the retail segment of the supply chain. Although to date the negative effects of such declines on our business have largely been offset by customers purchasing our products to drive efficiencies in their supply chain, if economic conditions continue to deteriorate or the failure rates of customers in our target markets increase, we may experience an overall decline in sales that would adversely impact our business. Risks Related To Our Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the price of our stock For 2009 we are only providing quarterly guidance, rather than the annual guidance we have given in the past. We made this change because in this rapidly changing, economic downturn it is difficult to forecast conditions 12 months in the future. Our actual quarterly operating results have varied in the past and are expected to continue to vary in the future. Fluctuating quarterly results can affect our annual guidance. If our quarterly or annual operating results, particularly our software revenues, fail to meet management’s or analysts’ expectations, the price of our stock could decline. Many factors may cause these fluctuations, including: • The difficulty of predicting demand for our software products and services, including the size and timing of individual contracts and our ability to recognize revenue with respect to contracts signed in a given quarter, particularly with respect to our larger customers; • Changes in the length and complexity of our sales cycle, including changes in the contract approval process at our customers and potential customers that now require a formal proposal process, a longer decision making period and additional layers of customer approval, often including authorization of the transaction by senior executives, boards of directors and significant equity investors; • Competitive pricing pressures and competitive success or failure on significant transactions; • Customer order deferrals resulting from the anticipation of new products, economic uncertainty, disappointing operating results by the customer, management changes, corporate reorganizations or otherwise; • The timing of new software product and technology introductions and enhancements to our software products or those of our competitors, and market acceptance of our new software products and technology; • Lack of desired features and functionality in our individual products or our suite of products; • Changes in the number, size or timing of new and renewal maintenance contracts or cancellations; 19 Table of Contents • Unplanned changes in our operating expenses; • Changes in the mix of domestic and international revenues, or expansion or contraction of international operations; • Our ability to complete fixed price consulting contracts within budget; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Lower-than-anticipated utilization in our consulting services group as a result of increased competition, reduced levels of software sales, reduced implementation times for our products, changes in the mix of demand for our software products, mergers and consolidations within our customer base, or other reasons; and • Our limited ability to reduce costs in the short term to compensate for any unanticipated shortfall in product or services revenue. Charges to earnings resulting from past or future acquisitions or internal reorganizations may also adversely affect our operating results. Under purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. As a result, any of the following or other factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: • Loss on impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets due to economic conditions or an extended decline in the market price of our stock below book value; • Changes in the useful lives or the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; • Accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities, in which case the related charges could be required to be included in earnings in the period in which the accrual is determined to the extent it is identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; • Charges to income to eliminate certain JDA pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure; and • Changes in deferred tax assets and valuation allowances. In addition, fluctuations in the price of our common stock may expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Furthermore, any settlement or adverse determination of these lawsuits could subject us to significant liabilities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control Our certificate of incorporation, which authorizes the issuance of “blank check preferred” stock and Delaware state corporate laws which restrict business combinations between a corporation and 15% or more owners of outstanding voting stock of the corporation for a three-year period, individually or in combination, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a JDA stockholder may consider favorable. We sold 50,000 shares of a new designated series of preferred stock (the “Series B Convertible Preferred Stock”) to funds affiliated with Thoma Bravo, LLC in connection with our acquisition of Manugistics Group, Inc. on July 5, 2006. The Series B Convertible Preferred Stock contain certain voting rights that require us to get approval of a majority of the holders if we want to take certain actions, including a change in control. These voting rights could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that another stockholder may consider favorable. 20 Table of Contents Our convertible preferred stock may adversely impact JDA and our common stockholders or have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock issued in connection with the acquisition of Manugistics may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference in the amount of $50 million plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, which must be paid before common stockholders would receive funds in the event of liquidation, including some changes of control and a redemption right after September 6, 2013 to receive a redemption value of $50 million. In addition, we are required to redeem the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock in certain circumstances, including a change in control. We have also agreed not to issue securities senior to or on a par with the Series B Preferred Stock while the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments — None 