Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for the historical information contained herein or incorporated by reference, this annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include projections about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the future, future operating and economic performance and other statements regarding future performance. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part I, Item 2 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K and in any other documents incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. If any of the events described below were to occur, our financial condition, our ability to access capital resources, our results of operations and/or our future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decline. As a result you could lose some or all of any investment you may have made or may make in our common stock. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability We had a loss of $7,067,300 after taxes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2009 (“Fiscal 2009”), a loss of $6,540,300 after taxes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008 (“Fiscal 2008”), and a loss of $4,654,900 after taxes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007 (“Fiscal 2007”). As of July 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $38.5 million. We may continue to have losses in the future. If the penetration into the marketplace of SDC takes longer than anticipated, revenue growth is slower than anticipated or operating expenses exceed expectations, it may take an unforeseen period of time to achieve or sustain profitability and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Slower than anticipated revenue growth could force us to reduce research, testing, development and marketing of our technology and/or force us to reduce the size and scope of our operations, or cease operations altogether. We do not yet have significant cash inflows from product sales or from other sources of revenue to offset our ongoing and planned investments in corporate infrastructure, research and development projects, regulatory submissions, business development activities, and sales and marketing, among other investments. These investments may not be successful. In addition, some of these investments cannot be postponed and we may be contractually or legally obligated to make them. In future periods we may need to seek additional capital through the issuance of debt, common stock, preferred stock, convertible securities or through other means, any one of which could reduce the value, perhaps substantially, of our outstanding common stock. We currently have no long-term debt, however the issuance of debt, common stock, preferred stock, convertible securities, or other financial instruments in future periods, if any, could lead to the dilution of our existing shareholders. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Insufficient funds could cause us to fail to execute our business plan, fail to take advantage of future opportunities, or fail to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements, and further may require us to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs, license to third parties the right to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise commercialize ourselves, sell some or all of our intellectual property, or to reduce or cease operations. The risks associated with our business may be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to other consequences, these periods may be accompanied by decreased consumer spending generally, as well as decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on our products. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a result, given the recent deterioration in the U.S. and global economies, as well as the decreasing purchasing power of consumers and institutions, we expect that our business will continue to be adversely affected for so long as, and to the extent that, such adverse economic conditions exist. If our efforts to achieve and maintain market acceptance of our core SDC technology are not successful, or we fail to obtain necessary governmental approvals, we are unlikely to attain profitability We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development and commercialization of our core SDC technology. We expect that sales of SDC will constitute a substantial portion, or all, of our revenues in future periods. Any material decrease in the overall level of sales or expected sales of, or the prices for, SDC, whether as a result of competition, change in customer demand, or any other factor, would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 We are marketing our new antimicrobial silver ion technology to industrial and consumer markets. These products have not yet been accepted into the marketplace, and may never be accepted. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain product sales or other forms of revenue over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost-effective or otherwise render our products less attractive or obsolete. Other risks involved in introducing these new products include liability for product effectiveness and safety, and competition from existing or emerging sources. Additionally, government regulation in the U.S. and in other countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacturing and marketing of many of our products and in our ongoing research and development activities. We believe that all products derived from SDC, or products that may be derived from SDC in future periods, require or will require approval by government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or overseas. Complying with applicable government regulations and obtaining necessary clearances or approvals can be time consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that regulatory review will not involve delays or other actions adversely affecting the marketing and sale of our products. For example, regulatory review of SDC by the EPA has historically been time consuming and expensive, due primarily, we believe, to the novel nature of our technology. While we cannot accurately predict the outcome of such regulatory processes, we expect the review process to remain time consuming and expensive as we, or our partners, apply for approval to market new formulations or to make additional claims. We also cannot predict the extent or impact of future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or overseas. Some of our new bioscience applications, for example those aimed at healthcare, food preparation and agriculture markets, will also require approval by government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or overseas. Until we, or our partners, obtain approvals from the appropriate regulatory authorities for future potential product applications, if any, we will not be able to market or sell such products, which would limit our revenues. Even after approval, if any, we will remain subject to changing governmental policies regulating antimicrobial products. If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, we may not become profitable We anticipate that expansion will continue to be required to address potential market opportunities for our SDC technology. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure will be sufficiently scalable to manage any future growth. There also can be no assurance that if we continue to invest in additional infrastructure, we will be effective in expanding our operations or that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support such expansion. In addition, we will need to provide additional sales and support services to our partners if we achieve our anticipated growth with respect to the sale of our SDC technology for various applications. Failure to properly manage an increase in customer demands could result in a material adverse effect on customer satisfaction, our ability to meet our contractual obligations, and on our operating results. The industries in which we operate are heavily regulated and we may be unable to compete effectively We are a bioscience company focused on the marketing and continued development of our electrolytically generated stabilized ionic silver technology, including our flagship SDC antimicrobial. The risks, regulatory hurdles and costs of doing business in our target markets are high. Our SDC is a platform technology rather than a single use applied technology. As such, products developed from the platform fall under the jurisdiction of multiple U.S. and international regulatory agencies. We currently have U.S. EPA registration for our 2400-parts per million (ppm) technical grade SDC concentrate (trade name Axenohl), as well as for our Axen and Axen30 hard surface disinfectant products. In addition, in August 2009 we obtained EPA registration for an SDC-based sanitizer for food contact surfaces. In addition to the Federal EPA, each of the 50 United States has its own government agency that regulates pesticide sales into their state. Prior to distributing a product into any of these states, a registration from the state is required. There can be no guarantee that a particular state, or any state, will continue to allow the sale of SDC-based products, or grant any new approvals in future periods. We intend to fund and manage additional U.S. EPA-regulated product development internally, in conjunction with our regulatory consultants and potentially by partnering with other third parties. We are also partnering, or intend to partner, with third parties who are seeking, or intend to seek, approvals to market SDC-based products in markets outside the U.S. However, the introduction of additional regulated antimicrobial products in the U.S. or in markets outside the U.S. could take several years, or may never be achieved. Existing state, federal or international approvals may not be maintained. Additionally, doing business internationally carries a great deal of risk with regard to foreign government regulation, banking, currency fluctuation, and many other factors. We are subject to intense competition Our silver ion and other products compete in highly competitive markets dominated by extremely large, well financed domestically and internationally recognized chemical and pharmaceutical companies. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do in the areas of sales, marketing, branding and product development, and we expect to face additional competition from these competitors in the future. Many of our competitors already have well established brands and distribution. Focused competition by chemical and pharmaceutical giants could substantially limit or eliminate our potential market share and ability to profit from our products and technologies. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability, and the ability of our distributors and other partners, to develop brand recognition and novel distribution methods, and to displace existing, established and future products in our relevant target markets. We or our partners or distributors may not be successful in doing so. We rely on a small number of key supply ingredients in order to manufacture our products All of the supply ingredients used to manufacture our products are readily available from multiple suppliers. However, commodity prices for these ingredients can vary significantly and the margins that we are able to generate could decline if prices rise. For example, both silver and citric acid prices have been volatile recently. In many of our distribution and development agreements, we are unable to raise our product prices to our customers quickly to maintain our margins, and significant price increases for key inputs would therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 We are subject to substantial regulation related to quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes. Our failure to comply with applicable quality standards could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The EPA regulates the registration, manufacturing, and sales and marketing of many of our products, and those of our distributors and partners, in the United States. Significant government regulation also exists in overseas markets. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored through periodic inspections and other review and reporting mechanisms. Failure by us or our partners to comply with current or future governmental regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls or related field actions, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. Efficacy or safety concerns and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products or those of our partners could lead to product recalls, fines withdrawals, declining sales, and/or our failure to successfully commercialize new products or otherwise achieve revenue growth. In addition, the FDA and comparable agencies in many foreign countries impose substantial limitations on the introduction of new products through costly and time-consuming laboratory and clinical testing and other procedures. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. There is no guarantee that either our existing partners or any other potential partner, or we, will be able to obtain the resources necessary to further develop our technology or obtain regulatory approvals, or that the products will be successful in meeting the strict criteria imposed by the FDA. It may be several years before we, or any third party to whom we grant rights to use our silver ion technologies, are able to introduce any FDA regulated antimicrobial pharmaceutical products containing our technology. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facility, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales and profitability will decline. Our sole manufacturing facility and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The facility may be affected by natural or man-made disasters and in the event they were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to set up alternative production capacity, or rely on third party manufacturers to whom we would have to disclose our trade secrets. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and may not address the marketing and goodwill consequences of our inability to provide products for an extended period of time. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new applications of our SDC technology, our operating results will suffer In addition to its use on inanimate surfaces, we believe that our SDC technology also shows promise as a broad-spectrum antimicrobial for use in human and veterinary healthcare products. We plan to pursue additional EPA and FDA regulatory approvals for other applications. We have entered into agreements with FTA Therapeutics for the development and commercialization of certain FDA regulated SDC-based products. However, we do not exercise any control over these development partners. FTA’s resources are limited and progress to date on all indications has been slow. Any products developed may never achieve regulatory approval and may never be commercialized. If they are commercialized, we may not receive a share of future revenues that provides an adequate return on our historical or future investment. Our ability to generate increased revenue depends in part upon the ability and willingness of our current and potential strategic partners in both FDA and non-FDA environments to increase awareness of our technology to their customers, and to provide implementation services. If our strategic partners fail to increase awareness of our technology or to assist us in getting access to decision-makers, then we may need to increase our marketing expenses, change our marketing strategy or enter into marketing relationships with different parties, any of which could impair our ability to generate increased revenue or to generate profits from our technology. Because we are an early stage company, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects; our financial results may fluctuate and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall Since acquiring the rights to our SDC technology, we have encountered and likely will continue to encounter risks and difficulties associated with new and rapidly evolving markets. These risks include the following, among others: · we may not increase our sales to our existing customers and expand our customer base; · we may not succeed in maintaining and expanding our current sales and in penetrating other markets and applications of our SDC technology; · we or our partners and/ distributors may not establish and maintain effective marketing programs and create product awareness or brand identity; · we may not attract and retain key business development, technical and management personnel; · we may not succeed in locating strategic partners and licensees of our technology; · we may not effectively manage our anticipated growth; and · we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. 9 In addition, because of our limited operating history and the early stage of the market for our SDC technology, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. Forecasting future revenues is difficult, especially since our technology is novel and we are at the early stages of the adoption of our technology. Market acceptance of our products may change rapidly. In addition, our customer base is highly concentrated. Fluctuations in the buying patterns of our current or potential customers for any reason, could significantly affect the level of our sales on a period to period basis. As a result, our financial results could fluctuate to an extent that may not meet market expectations and that also may adversely affect our stock price. There are a number of other factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate unexpectedly, including product sales, the mix of product sales, the cost of product sales, the achievement and timing of research and development and regulatory milestones, changes in expenses, including non-cash expenses such as the fair value of stock options granted, and manufacturing or supply issues, among other issues. We have no product distribution experience and we expect to rely on third parties who may not successfully sell our products We have no product distribution experience and currently rely and plan to rely primarily on product distribution arrangements with third parties. We also plan to license our technology to certain third parties for commercialization of certain applications. We expect to enter into additional distribution agreements and licensing agreements in the future, and we may not be able to enter into these additional agreements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the distribution activities of these third parties. These third parties could sell competing products and may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. As a result, our future revenues from sales of our products, if any, will depend on the success of the efforts of these third parties. We expect to rely on third parties to develop SDC-based products and they may not do so successfully or diligently We rely on third parties to whom we license rights to our technology to develop products containing SDC for many of the applications for which we believe SDC-based products have, or may have, market opportunities. Generally, under our contractual relationships with these third parties, we rely on the third party to fund and direct product development activities and appropriate regulatory filings. Any of these third parties may not be able to successfully develop such SDC-based products, due to, among other factors, a lack of capital; a lack of appropriate diligence; a change in the evaluation by the third party of the market potential for SDC-based products; technical failures; and poorer than expected test results resulting from trial use of any products that may be developed. If we are unable to obtain, maintain or defend patent and other intellectual property ownership rights relating to our technology, we or our collaborators and distributors may not be able to develop and market products based on our technology, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and the price of our common stock We rely and expect in the future to rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law, and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology and business. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our intellectual property and trade secrets. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our proprietary technology or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. As a result, we cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, and the infringement of such rights could have a material negative impact on our business and on our results of operations. We have filed for U.S. and foreign patent applications and trademark registrations for our patents and trademarks. We may not be successful in obtaining these patents and trademarks, and we may be unable to obtain additional patent and trademark protection in the future. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. It is possible that, despite our efforts, competitors or others will create and use products in violation of our patents and/or adopt service names similar to our service names or otherwise misappropriate our intellectual property. Such patent infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any unauthorized production of our SDC-based products, whether in the U.S. or overseas, would or could reduce our own sales of SDC-based products, thereby reducing, perhaps significantly, our actual or potential profits. Adopting similar names and trademarks by competitors could lead to customer confusion. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could negatively affect our business. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our trade secrets. If third parties prepare and file applications in the U.S. or other countries that claim trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and may be required to participate in proceedings before the regulatory agencies who determine priority of rights to such trademarks. Any litigation or adverse priority proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we are found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in our business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary for us to pay a substantial amount in the future if the rights holders are willing to permit us to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make us much less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent that we operate internationally, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the extent as do the laws of the U.S. Many countries have a “first-to-file” trademark registration system. As a result, we may be prevented from registering or using our trademarks in certain countries if third parties have previously filed applications to register or have registered the same or similar trademarks. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors, or potential competitors, could independently develop similar technology. 10 We may become subject to product liability claims As a business which manufactures and markets products for use by consumers and institutions, we may become liable for any damage caused by our products, whether used in the manner intended or not. Any such claim of liability, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming and/or result in costly litigation. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of the types described above and may not be adequate to indemnify for all liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could harm our business and operating results, and you may lose some or all of any investment you have made, or may make, in our common stock. Litigation or the actions of regulatory authorities may harm our business or otherwise distract our management Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur major expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, former employees, shareholders, partners, customers, or others, or actions taken by regulatory authorities, could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Such lawsuits or actions could from time to time be filed against the Company and/or or our executive officers and directors. Such lawsuits and actions are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes or actions on terms favorable to the Company. Maintaining compliance with our obligations as a public company may strain our resources and distract management, and if we do not remain compliant our stock price may be adversely affected Our common stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). It is therefore subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. The SEC continues to issue new and proposed rules, and complying with existing and new rules results in significant costs to us of being a public company, including substantial costs during Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, and in future years. In addition, in April 2008 we obtained a listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, adding the additional cost and administrative burden of maintaining such a listing. These additional regulatory costs and requirements will reduce our future profits or increase our future losses, and more management time and effort will be needed to meet our regulatory obligations than before. We are required to evaluate our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management is required to attest to, and have our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm attest to, the adequacy of our internal controls. We are also required to file our annual and quarterly reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on an accelerated basis. Recent SEC pronouncements suggest that in the next several years we may be required to report our financial results using new International Financial Reporting Standards, replacing U.S. GAAP, which would require us to make significant investments in training, hiring, consulting and information technology, among other investments. All of these and other reporting requirements and heightened corporate governance obligations that we face, or will face, will further increase the cost to us, perhaps substantially, of remaining compliant with our obligations under the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In order to meet these incremental obligations, we will need to invest in our corporate and accounting infrastructure and systems, and acquire additional services from third party auditors and advisors. As a result of these requirements and investments, we will incur significant additional expenses and will suffer a significant diversion of management’s time. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to meet these obligations in a timely manner, and we could therefore be subject to sanctions or investigation, or the delisting of our common stock, by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NASDAQ Capital Market. Any such actions could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock, perhaps significantly. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed from time to time by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from achieving our business plan in a timely manner Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on our executive officers or other employees, other than Michael L. Krall, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The policy we have on Mr. Krall would likely not provide a benefit sufficient to offset the financial losses resulting from the loss of Mr. Krall’s future services. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to recruit qualified personnel able to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. 11 Because competition for highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our planned growth To successfully meet our objectives, we must continue to attract and retain highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel with specialized skill sets focused on the industries in which we compete, or intend to compete. Competition for qualified business development and bioengineering personnel can be intense. Our ability to meet our business development objectives will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand our technology and business. In addition, it takes time for our new personnel to become productive and to learn our business. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified business development and bioengineering personnel, it will be difficult for us to sell our products or to license our technology, and we may experience a shortfall in revenue and not achieve our anticipated growth. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and California law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock Certain provisions of our charter and by-laws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us that is not approved by our Board of Directors (the “Board”), even if such events may be beneficial to the interests of shareholders. For example, our Board, without shareholder approval, has the authority and power to issue all authorized and unissued shares of common stock which have not otherwise been reserved for issuance, on such terms as the Board determines. The Board could also issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and such preferred stock could have voting or conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. In addition, California law contains provisions that have the effect of making it more difficult for others to gain control of the Company. The price of our common stock may be volatile, which may cause investment losses for our shareholders Since our initial public offering in August 1996, the price and trading volume of our common stock have been highly volatile. The price has ranged from below $1 per share to over $8 per share, and the monthly trading volume has varied from under 200,000 shares to over 7.8 million shares. During the twelve months prior to October 12, 2009, the closing price of our common stock on any given day has ranged from $1.50 to $3.99 per share, and the monthly trading volume has varied from approximately 1.5 million shares to approximately 5.4 million shares. In the future, the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; · the introduction of new products or services, or product or service enhancements by us or our competitors; · developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights or regulatory approvals or denials; · announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or our competitors; · the sale by us of our common or preferred stock or other securities, or the anticipation of sales of such securities; · sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by our insiders (management and directors); · the trading volume of our common stock, particularly if such volume is light; · conditions and trends in our industry; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets and, among other factors; · general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market for shares of novel technology and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of bioscience companies have been unusually volatile in the last year, and many economists expect such unusual volatility to continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation have often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against the Company or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, this volatility could adversely affect an investor’s ability to sell shares of our common stock and/or the available price for such shares, and could result in lower prices being available to an investor if the investor wishes to sell their shares at any given time. 12 Our future capital needs are uncertain, and we may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other factors: · acceptance of, and demand for, our products; · the success of our strategic partners in developing and selling products derived from our technology; · the costs of further developing our existing, and developing new, products or technologies · the extent to which we invest in new technology, testing and product development; · the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and · the costs associated with the continued operation, and any future growth, of our business. Our existing sources of cash and cash flows may not be sufficient to fund our future activities. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing common stock holders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may need to scale back our expenditures through reductions in our workforce and operations, and we may not be able to develop or enhance our technologies and/or products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated consumer requirements. We may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ listing In April 2008, we obtained a listing for our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain our listing, we will need to continue to meet certain minimum listing standards that include, or may include, our shareholders’ equity, the market value of our listed or publicly held securities, the number of publicly held shares, our net income, a minimum bid price for our common stock, the number of shareholders, the number of market makers, and certain of our corporate governance policies. If we fail to maintain the standards required now or in future by the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Such delisting could cause our stock to be classified as “penny stock,”, among other potentially detrimental consequences, any of which could significantly impact your ability to sell your shares or to sell your shares at a price that you may deem to be acceptable. If outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised, or if other remaining authorized shares of our common stock are issued, the interests of our shareholders could be diluted We have approximately 8,495,222 shares of common stock reserved for issuance, which includes shares under equity compensation plans, vested and unvested options, and warrants. These shares have a weighted-average exercise price of approximately $2.29. In addition, approximately 7,378,630 authorized shares of our common stock remain available for future issuance under equity compensation plans or otherwise. The exercise of options and warrants, and the sale of shares underlying such options or warrants, could have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock, including the price that an investor could obtain for their shares. Investors may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their investment upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants granted under our stock option plans, and options and warrants yet to be granted or issued. We may not be able to utilize all of, or any of, our tax net operating loss carry-forwards and our future after-tax earnings, if any, could be reduced At July 31, 2009, we had federal and California tax net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $50,009,800 and $39,871,800, respectively. Utilization of the net operating loss carry-forwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as well as similar state provisions. These ownership changes may limit the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups. Since the Company’s formation, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions (both before and after our initial public offering in 1996) which, combined with the purchasing shareholders’ subsequent disposition of those shares, may have resulted in such an ownership change, or could result in an ownership change in the future upon subsequent disposition. While we believe that the Company has not experienced an ownership change, the pertinent tax rules related thereto are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and thus complete assurance cannot be provided that the taxing authorities would not take an alternative position. In addition, our federal tax loss carry-forwards will begin expiring in the year ending July 31, 2010 unless previously utilized, and will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2028. Between July 31, 2010 and July 31, 2012, $3,323,800 of our federal net operating loss carry-forwards will expire, and the balance of our current federal net operating loss carry-forwards will expire between July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2028. Our California tax loss carry-forwards will begin to expire in the year ending July 31, 2014, and will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2029. If we are unable to earn sufficient profits to utilize the carry-forwards by these dates, they will no longer be available to offset future profits, if any. 13 We are subject to tax audits by various tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions From time to time we may be audited by tax authorities to whom we are subject. Any assessment resulting from such audits, if any, could result in material changes to our past or future taxable income, tax payable or deferred tax assets, and could require us to pay penalties and interest that could materially adversely affect our financial results. We may never pay dividends We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends on our common stock, if any, is dependent on the discretion of our Board, our earnings, our financial condition and other business and economic factors which our Board may consider relevant. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 