ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect the performance of Primus and the Arbinet business, which we acquired on February 28, 2011. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others could adversely affect our operations: The following is not intended as, and should not be construed as, an exhaustive list of relevant risk factors. There may be other risks that are relevant to an investor’s particular circumstances or generally. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND OVERALL BUSINESS Continuing global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval. Many major economies worldwide entered significant economic recessions beginning in 2007 and continue to experience economic weakness even though economies have begun to show signs of recovery. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread recession and potentially prolonged economic recovery, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence, substantially increased and increasing unemployment rates and the crisis in the global housing and mortgage markets have all contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for both established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by government interventions in financial systems led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to significant economic uncertainty, which has not subsequently improved in any significant way globally. The availability, cost and terms of credit also have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial and continuing decrease in spending by businesses and consumers over the past several years, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing debt instruments and to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease financing to meet liquidity needs. A continuation of this adverse environment may have an impact on our business and financial condition in the following ways as well as in other ways that we currently cannot predict. • Potential risk in refinancing outstanding debts: Although none of our major debt instruments are scheduled to mature before 2013, at the earliest, if the volatility in the global capital markets were to continue, our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness when due could be severely constrained. See “—Risks Associated with Our Liquidity Needs and Debt Securities.” Any such refinancing could require significantly more expensive interest rates and covenants that restrict our operations to a significantly greater extent. • Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions and credit markets may cause consumers, business and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased availability of cash and credit, and declining business and consumer confidence, any of which may affect the usage of our services by the customers and the ability of those customers to pay for our services. Accordingly, future demand for our products and services could differ from our current expectations. Similarly, our customers may experience liquidity issues of their own that adversely affect our ability to collect amounts due from them in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, if the global economy and credit markets continue to deteriorate or cease to recover and our future sales decline, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. 24 Table of Contents Strengthening of the United States Dollar (“USD”) against certain foreign currencies reduces the amount of USDs generated from foreign currency payments from our foreign operating subsidiaries and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to service our debt. A significant portion of our net revenue (about 85% for the year ended December 31, 2010) is derived from sales and operations outside the U.S. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the USD. Our foreign operating subsidiaries, including our largest operating subsidiaries in Canada and Australia, generate cash in their respective local currencies and fluctuations in exchange rates can have a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue (which is a substantial source for servicing our significant debt obligations at the parent entity level, as well as a source for making principal payments) and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the U.S., and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. From June 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the Canadian and Australian dollars (“CAD” and “AUD,” respectively) declined by 17% and 28%, respectively, relative to the USD, and this has had a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. Conversely, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the CAD and AUD increased by 11% and 35%, respectively. From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, the CAD and AUD increased by 5% and 10%, respectively. Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the U.S., and the cash transfers from these foreign operating subsidiaries to the U.S. parent, a strengthening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to service or repay our consolidated indebtedness and obligations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions. The exposure of our income from operations to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is reduced in part because a majority of the costs that we incur in connection with our foreign operations are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. In 2002, agreements with certain subsidiaries were put in place for repayment of a portion of the investments and advances made to those subsidiaries. As we anticipate repayment in the foreseeable future of these amounts, we recognize the unrealized gains and losses in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on the consolidated statements of operations, and depending upon changes in future currency rates, such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage could adversely affect our ability to attract and to retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The local, long-distance, Internet, broadband, digital subscriber lines (“DSL”), data and hosting and wireless telecommunications industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger business participants. Prices in the long-distance industry have continued to decline in recent years and, as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. The most significant competitors in our primary markets include: • United States: AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., Qwest Communications International Inc. and other incumbent carriers, cable companies, including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc., other competitive local exchange carriers, including PaeTec Communications, Inc., Time Warner Telecom Inc., XO Communications Services, Inc. and Frontier Communications Corp., independent VoIP providers, 25 Table of Contents including Vonage Holdings Corp and Cbeyond, Inc., wireless carriers in the U.S., including Verizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., Sprint Corp., T-Mobile USA Inc., MetroPCS Communications, Inc. and Leap Wireless International, Inc., and web based companies, including Skype Technologies S.A. and Google Inc.; • Australia: Telstra, SingTel Optus Pty Limited, Telecom New Zealand Limited, iiNet Limited, SP Telemedia Limited (known as TPG), Macquarie Telecom Group Ltd. and other smaller national and regional service providers and resellers.; and • Canada: TELUS, Bell Canada, MTS Allstream, Inc., Saskatchewan Telecommunications, wireless providers, including Rogers, TELUS, Bell Canada, Bragg Communications Inc., COGECO Inc., Quebecor Inc. and Shaw Communications, Inc., cable companies, and other service providers and resellers including Globalive Communications Corp. in Canada. Customers frequently change local, long-distance, wireless, broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VoIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, customers generally can switch carriers and service offerings at their discretion with little notice to us. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences affect markets outside the U.S., competition in non-U.S. markets is increasing to a level similar to the intense competition in the U.S. The Arbinet business faces competition for its voice trading services from communication services providers’ legacy processes and new companies that may be able to create centralized trading solutions that replicate Arbinet’s voice trading platform. The Arbinet business’ PrivateExchange and AssuredAxcess solutions may compete with communication services providers’ legacy processes, communication services providers themselves and potentially other companies that provide software and services to communication services providers. The Arbinet business faces competition for its data trading services from Internet service providers and Internet capacity resellers, and to a lesser extent, software-based, Internet infrastructure companies and Internet network service providers. These companies may be more effective in attracting voice traffic than the Arbinet Exchange, (“the Exchange”). Once communications services providers have established business relationships with competitors to the Arbinet business, it could be extremely difficult to convince them to utilize the Exchange. These competitors may be able to develop services or processes that are superior to Arbinet’s services or processes, or that achieve greater industry acceptance. Where the Arbinet business competes with legacy processes, it may be particularly difficult to convince customers to utilize the Exchange. Since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers on an anonymous basis, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing businesses, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange. If participants withdraw from the Exchange in significant numbers, it could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm the Arbinet business. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers and lower debt-leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. Several long-distance carriers in the U.S., Canada and Australia and the major wireless carriers and cable companies have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates or unlimited 26 Table of Contents plans for domestic and international calls. This strategy could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, which we set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Given strong competition in delivering individual and bundled local, wireless, broadband, DSL, VoIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand these parts of our business. We have accelerated initiatives to become an integrated wireline, wireless and broadband service provider in order to counter competitive pricing pressures initiated by large incumbent providers in certain of the principal markets where we operate and to stem the loss of certain of our wireline voice and dial-up ISP customers to our competitors’ bundled wireline, wireless and broadband service offerings. Our primary competitors include incumbent telecommunications providers, cable companies and other ISPs that have a significant national or international presence. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. We are experiencing increased competition from traditional telecommunications carriers, cable companies and other new entrants that have expanded into the market for broadband, VoIP, Internet services, data and hosting and traditional voice services. In addition, regulatory developments may impair our ability to compete. Therefore, future operations involving these individual or bundled services may not succeed in the competitive environment, and we (1) may not be able to expand successfully; (2) may experience margin pressure; (3) may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; (4) may have limited resources to develop and to market the new services; and (5) have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will reverse revenue declines in our traditional long-distance voice and dial-up ISP services or maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate sufficient income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. Our positioning in the marketplace and intense domestic and international competition in these services places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace to focus on Growth Services segments of the telecom market, including broadband, IP-based voice, local, wireless, data and data center solutions may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and increase demand on our systems and controls. However, the local and long-distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless industries are intensely competitive, present relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and involve numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, and cable television companies, who could offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television services, and electric power utilities, who could offer voice and broadband Internet access. For example, the U.S. and many other countries have committed to open their telecommunications markets to competition pursuant to an agreement under the World Trade Organization which began on January 1, 1998. Further, in the U.S., the major landline incumbent carriers (including AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) have for many years also provided long-distance services, and previously independent long-distance providers (including AT&T Inc. and MCI Inc.) have been acquired by the landline incumbents. In addition, many entities, including large cable television companies (including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc.) and utilities have been allowed to enter both the local service and long-distance telecommunications markets. To manage our market positioning effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to expand its coverage and capacity including the data centers expansion, maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other 27 Table of Contents transmission facilities, evolve our support and billing systems and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, support, sales and marketing, administrative resources, network infrastructure, maintenance and upgrading. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required, such as our need to off-shore certain functions. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting, which could impact debt covenant compliance. We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses which may hinder our ability to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. As of June 30, 2009, the Predecessor Company had an accumulated deficit of $1.06 billion. Predecessor incurred net losses of $149.2 million in 2005, $238.0 million in 2006 and $25.0 million in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Predecessor recognized net income of $15.7 million, of which $32.7 million of revenue was related to the positive impact of foreign currency transaction gains. Even with the elimination of our significant accumulated deficit and the reduction in indebtedness through our reorganization under Chapter 11 in 2009, future losses may continue. In this regard, the Successor Company incurred a net loss of $19.1 million in 2010. In addition, at September 30, 2010, Arbinet’s accumulated deficit was $134.4 million. Arbinet incurred a net loss of $8.7 million, $14.9 million, $6.9 million, and $0.4 million for the years ended 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. It is expected that the Arbinet business will incur significant future expenses, particularly with respect to the development of new products and services, deployment of additional infrastructure, and expansion in strategic global markets. In order for the Arbinet business to achieve profitability, it must: increase the usage of the Exchange by the members and carrier services customers and attract new customers in order to improve the liquidity of the Exchange; closely manage its expenses; deliver superior service to the members; mitigate the credit risks of its business; and develop and commercialize new products and services. The Arbinet business may not succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In light of the foregoing we cannot assure you that we will recognize net income in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or sufficient operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based local, wireless, broadband, data and long-distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets and regulatory requirements could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, for the year ended December 31, 2010, derived about 85% of our net revenues by providing services outside of the U.S. In international markets, we are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we 28 Table of Contents operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers: (1) are likely to modify and/or control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; (2) enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; (3) generally offer a wider range of product and services; and (4) have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and longer term customer and supplier agreements on preferred and better terms. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to their switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: (1) obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate in the new service areas; (2) obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or (3) market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes or uncertainties in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs and duties. Given the nature of our operations and uncertainties in, or the absence of definitive regulations or interpretations concerning, the taxation of (including value added tax of) certain aspects of our business in certain international jurisdictions in which we conduct (or may be construed by such authorities as conducting or deriving taxable) operations or revenue, we may become subject to assessments for taxes (which may include penalties and interest) which are either unexpected, or have not been accrued for in our historical results of operations or both. This circumstance occurred during March 2008, when we concluded it was probable that assessments would be forthcoming concerning past European prepaid calling services operations, and it is possible that tax uncertainties concerning our international operations could arise in the future. Such developments, in addition to the other uncertainties and risks described above, could have adverse consequences that might result in restatement of prior period results of operations and unanticipated liquidity demands. Additional operating risks and uncertainties in operating in international markets include trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the U.S. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless broadband through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VoIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. As the overall market for domestic and international long-distance and dial-up Internet services continues to decline in favor of Internet-based, wireless, and broadband communications, revenue contribution from our Traditional Services has been consequently declining. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions or do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services, including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. The rapid enhancement of VoIP and Internet technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long-distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to 29 Table of Contents traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VoIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long-distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VoIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VoIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the U.S. and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VoIP initiatives. Our ability effectively to retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VoIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VoIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others and the requirements to provide E911. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage, maintain and upgrade a reliable and cost-effective network infrastructure, including data hosting centers. In addition, we rely on third party equipment and service vendors to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet, data and hosting and wireless services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary aspects of our network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. If we are not able to use and protect intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although our existing intellectual property licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses and, individually, their costs and terms are not material to our business, the loss of, or our inability to maintain existing licenses, could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated and could cause service disruption to our customers. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business. We also generally rely on indemnification provisions in licensing contracts to protect against claims of infringement regarding the licensed technology, which indemnification could be affected by, among other things, the financial strength of the licensor. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or the services of our other key personnel, or our inability to attract and retain additional key management, technical and sales personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 due to a material weakness that existed in our internal control over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 due to a material weakness that existed in our internal control over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss). If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. In evaluating the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our management identified as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 a control deficiency in our controls and procedures over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 due to a material weakness over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss), and management concluded in each case that the control deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting constituted a material weakness. These deficiencies represented a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting on the basis that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our interim or annual financial statements could occur and would not be prevented or detected by our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 identified a material weakness in internal control related to a lack of documentation, insufficient historical analysis and ineffective reconciliation procedures, primarily caused by lack of personnel with adequate expertise in income tax accounting matters. Since identifying the material weakness concerning accounting for income taxes at December 31, 2006, we have undertaken the following initiatives to remediate the material weakness: hired a new Corporate Tax Director and a Manager of Taxation in our Canadian operating unit; established procedures for foreign finance personnel to communicate regularly any tax concerns with the Corporate Tax Director; purchased and implemented tax provision preparation software; and developed quarterly tax documentation formats. After remediating the material weakness during 2009, we completed in 2010 several complicated financial transactions that were not properly accounted for due to insufficient documentation of historical positions. In addition, the effective performance of our tax controls was limited due to the fact that we failed to completely document our key tax processes and controls, which prevented an effective knowledge transfer to the new Corporate Tax Director, who started in the position on January 3, 2011. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2010 our management concluded that our internal controls surrounding accounting for income taxes are not effective. In March 2010, the Company determined that an error existed related to accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on certain inter-company balances. Specifically, this error related to activity in the third quarter 2009 resulting in the Company amending its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. This amendment restated our financial statements in order to correct a non-cash error relating to accounting for unrealized foreign currency transaction losses associated with certain inter-company balances that were permanent in nature and, therefore, should have been recorded as currency translation adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the equity section of the balance sheet. Since identifying this, we have undertaken initiatives to remediate this material weakness by (a) performing additional recalculations and analysis of the foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; (b) implementing an improved process for assessing the reasonableness of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; and (c) confirming intercompany settlements related to these balances at a transactional level. As a result of such efforts, the material weakness concerning currency transaction was downgraded to a control deficiency and will not be considered completely remediated until the new controls continue to operate for a sufficient period of time and are sufficiently tested to enable management to conclude that the controls are operating effectively. As of December 31, 2010, management concluded that there was a control deficiency concerning foreign currency transactions. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”. 31 Table of Contents Our management will consider the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and necessary changes to such controls. However, we can not assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in future errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Financial information in our future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from periods before July 1, 2009 due to our Reorganization and the application of fresh-start accounting to our financial statements. Upon our Holding Companies’ emergence from Chapter 11 on July 1, 2009, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 852, Reorganizations, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the Reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with ASC 805, Business Combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting, our accumulated deficit ($1.06 billion at June 30, 2009) has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our future consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the Reorganization. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ARBINET BUSINESS The members of the Arbinet Exchange may not trade on the Exchange or utilize Arbinet’s other services due to, among other things, the lack of a liquid market, which may materially harm the Arbinet business. Volatility in trading volumes may have a significant adverse effect on the Arbinet business’ financial condition and operating results. Traditionally, communication services providers buy and sell network capacity in a direct, one-to-one process. The members may not trade on the Exchange unless it provides them with an active and liquid market. Liquidity depends on, among other things, the number of buyers and sellers and the number of competitively priced routes that actively trade on a particular communications route. Arbinet’s ability to increase the number of buyers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend on, among other things, the willingness and ability of prospective sellers to satisfy the quality criteria and price parameters imposed by prospective buyers and, upon the increased participation of competing sellers from which a buyer can choose in order to obtain favorable pricing, achieve cost savings and consistently gain access to the required quality services. Arbinet’s ability to increase the number of sellers that actively trade on the Exchange will depend upon the extent to which there are sufficient numbers of prospective buyers available to increase the likelihood that sellers will generate meaningful sales revenues. Alternatively, the members may not trade on the Exchange if they are not able to realize significant cost savings. This may also result in a decline in trading volume and liquidity of the Exchange. Trading volume is additionally impacted by the mix of hundreds of geographic markets traded on the Exchange. Each market has distinct characteristics, such as price and average call duration. Declines in the trading volume on the Exchange would result in lower revenues to Arbinet and would adversely affect Arbinet’s profitability because of Arbinet’s predominantly fixed cost structure. 32 Table of Contents The members may not trade on the Exchange because such members may conclude that the Exchange will replace their existing business at lower margins. If the Exchange continues to be an active, liquid market in which lower-priced alternatives are available to buyers, sellers may conclude that further development of the Exchange will erode their profits and they may stop offering communications capacity on the Exchange. Since the Exchange provides full disclosure of prices offered by participating sellers, buyers may choose to purchase network capacity through the Exchange instead of sending traffic to their existing suppliers at pre-determined, and often higher, contract prices. If suppliers of communications capacity fear or determine that the price disclosure and spot market limit order mechanisms provided by the Exchange will “cannibalize” the greater profit-generating potential of their existing business, they may choose to withdraw from the Exchange, which ultimately could cause the Exchange to fail and materially harm Arbinet’s business. The combined company’s carrier services strategy may adversely affect the activity of members on the Exchange. Arbinet has traditionally operated as an anonymous Exchange. However, some of the members may view the merger with Primus as competitive to their businesses and may limit or eliminate their activity on the Exchange. Any such reduction could have a material adverse effect on the Arbinet business’ operating results. The Arbinet business may incur losses on customer calls that do not match the expected distribution of calls to the offered destination in carrier services. The trading Exchange operates using the Arbinet business’ defined codes so that the buyer is committed to pay the price for those codes and the seller is committing to offer termination using those codes. In the carrier services offering, Arbinet may compile a destination using multiple suppliers, each with their own prices for regions in that destination. However, portability of numbers between carriers at that destination may alter the price for termination. Arbinet is then offering to provide termination to the broader destination to its customers on the assumption that a certain blend of calling will be achieved. If the customer sends a blend of calls that is substantially different from what is expected and all of those calls are to the more expensive parts of a destination, Arbinet may receive invoices that are significantly greater than expected and may limit its ability to complete a sale to the buyer that is profitable for Arbinet. The Arbinet business’ standard member enrollment cycle can be long and uncertain and may not result in revenues. The member enrollment cycle for full membership on the Exchange can be long, and may take up to 12 months or even longer from Arbinet’s initial contact with a communication services provider until that provider signs the membership agreement. Because Arbinet offers a new method of purchasing and selling international long distance voice calls and Internet capacity, Arbinet must invest a substantial amount of time and resources to educate prospective members on services providers regarding the benefits of the Exchange. Factors that contribute to the length and uncertainty of the member enrollment cycle and which may reduce the likelihood that a member will purchase or sell communications traffic through the Exchange include: • the strength of pre-existing one-to-one relationships that prospective members may already have with their communication services providers; • existing incentive structures within the members’ organizations that do not reward decision-makers for savings achieved through cost-cutting; • the experience of the trial trading process by prospective members; • an aversion to new methods for buying and selling communications capacity; and • the effect of the limited credit available to prospective members and the associated impact on their spending and cash flow. 33 Table of Contents Arbinet is exposed to the credit risk of the members not covered by its credit management programs with third parties, which could result in material losses. There have been adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets for communication services providers that have affected their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures. In some cases, the significant debt burden carried by certain communication services providers has adversely affected their ability to pay their outstanding balances with Arbinet and some of the members have filed for bankruptcy as a result of their debt burdens. Although these members may emerge from bankruptcy proceedings in the future, unsecured creditors, such as Arbinet, often receive partial or no payment toward outstanding obligations. Furthermore, because Arbinet is an international business, Arbinet may be subject to the bankruptcy laws of other nations, which may provide Arbinet limited or no relief. Although these losses have not been significant to date, future losses, if incurred, could be significant, particularly as a result of the impact of adverse economic conditions and the potential further tightening of credit availability on customers, and could harm the Arbinet business and have a material adverse effect on our overall operating results and financial condition. Arbinet may be unable to effectively manage the pricing risk, which could result in significant losses. In certain instances, Arbinet offers its customers a fixed rate for specific markets for a set duration. Arbinet may assume the risk on the price of the minutes and Arbinet may not be able to secure the prices from sellers to ensure Arbinet does not lose money on the minutes purchased by the buyers. Arbinet could incur significant losses related to having a higher cost of minutes sold in relation to the price offered to the buyer of this service. Expanding and maintaining international operations will subject Arbinet to additional risks and uncertainties. Arbinet expects to continue the expansion of its international operations, which will subject Arbinet to additional risks and uncertainties. Arbinet has established exchange delivery points in New York City, London, Frankfurt, Miami and Hong Kong, and Arbinet intends to expand its presence. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of additional risks that could have an adverse effect on Arbinet’s business, including: • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changing and conflicting regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • tariffs and general export restrictions; • difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • potential non-enforceability of Arbinet’s intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign countries; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Arbinet’s inability to manage these risks effectively could result in increased costs and distractions and may adversely affect Arbinet’s business, financial condition and operating results. 34 Table of Contents Arbinet’s pricing in the Exchange and new products and services may not be sustainable and may decline over time. As prices for international long-distance minutes continue to decline, Arbinet needs to charge the members less for utilization of its services. Arbinet may also need to reduce its prices to drive incremental minutes on the Exchange. As Arbinet has a predominantly fixed-price operating cost structure, Arbinet is evaluating pricing programs that maximize the volume and aggregate fee revenues on the Exchange. Arbinet continues to explore additional volume discounting programs and alternative pricing programs to drive overall fee revenues. Arbinet’s fee revenue per minute may decline in the coming quarters as Arbinet explores these pricing initiatives. Arbinet cannot be certain that its pricing programs will drive significant enough increases in volume to offset the price reduction and, therefore, Arbinet’s aggregate fee revenues may decline due to these pricing programs. System failures, human error and security breaches could cause Arbinet to lose members and expose Arbinet to liability. The communications services providers that use Arbinet’s services depend on Arbinet’s ability to accurately track, rate, store and report the traffic and trades that are conducted on its platform. Software defects, system failures, natural disasters, human error and other factors could lead to inaccurate or lost information or the inability to access the exchange. From time to time, Arbinet has experienced temporary service interruptions. Arbinet’s systems could be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and third party security breaches. In a few instances, Arbinet manually input trading data, such as bid and ask prices, at the request of the members, which could give rise to human error and miscommunication of trading information and may result in disputes with the members. Any loss of information or the delivery of inaccurate information due to human error, miscommunication or otherwise or a breach or failure of Arbinet’s security mechanisms that leads to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information could lead to member dissatisfaction and possible claims against Arbinet for damages. Undetected defects in Arbinet’s technology could adversely affect its operations. Arbinet’s technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called “bugs.” Although Arbinet regularly tests its software and systems extensively, Arbinet cannot ensure that its testing will detect every potential error, defect or performance problem. Any such error, defect or performance problem could have an adverse effect on Arbinet’s operations. Users of Arbinet’s services may be particularly sensitive to any defects, errors or performance problems in Arbinet’s systems because a failure of Arbinet’s systems to monitor transactions accurately could adversely affect their own operations. If Arbinet does not adequately maintain the members’ and customers’ confidential information, Arbinet could be subject to legal liability and its reputation could be harmed. Any breach of security relating to confidential information of the members or customers could result in legal liability to Arbinet and a reduction in use of the Exchange or cancellation of Arbinet’s services, either of which could materially harm Arbinet’s business. Arbinet’s personnel often receive highly confidential information from buyers and sellers that is stored in Arbinet’s files and on its systems. Similarly, Arbinet receives sensitive pricing information that has historically been maintained as a matter of confidence within buyer and seller organizations. Arbinet currently has practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of the members’ and customers’ information. However, Arbinet’s practices, policies and procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or unintentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that Arbinet is obligated to keep confidential. Arbinet may not be successful in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, so its exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of the members or customers may grow as Arbinet expands its business and increases the amount of information that it possessed. If Arbinet fails to adequately maintain the members’ or customers’ confidential information, some of them could end their business relationships with Arbinet and Arbinet could be subject to legal liability. 35 Table of Contents Arbinet may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications services industry. The communications services industry is subject to constant and rapid technological changes. Arbinet cannot predict the effect of technological changes on its business. New services and technologies may be superior to Arbinet’s services and technologies, or may render Arbinet’s services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, Arbinet must adapt to and keep pace with rapidly changing technologies by continually improving, expanding and developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Arbinet’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to respond to technological advances, meet the evolving needs of members and customers and conform to emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis, if implemented. Arbinet will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand its services to keep pace with changing technologies. Failure to do so may materially harm Arbinet’s business. Any failure of Arbinet’s physical infrastructure could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce its revenue and harm its business reputation and financial results. Arbinet’s business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. Arbinet must protect its infrastructure and any colocated equipment of the members located in Arbinet’s exchange delivery points, or EDPs. Arbinet’s EDPs and the services Arbinet provides are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; • water damage; • power loss; and • terrorism, sabotage and vandalism. Problems at one or more of Arbinet’s EDPs, whether or not within Arbinet’s control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to terminate voice calls or supply Internet capacity could reduce the confidence of the members and customers and could consequently impair Arbinet’s ability to obtain and retain members and customers, which would adversely affect both Arbinet’s ability to generate revenues and its operating results. RISKS RELATING TO, OR FOLLOWING, THE ARBINET MERGER Primus may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Arbinet merger. Primus and Arbinet entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits including, among other things, synergies, cost savings, maintaining business and customer levels of activity and operating efficiencies. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Primus and Arbinet. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties. Although Primus’s plans for integration are focused on minimizing those uncertainties to help achieve the anticipated benefits, no assurance can be given that these benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Integration efforts associated with the merger could divert management attention and resources away from operating and strategic objectives and could have an adverse effect on the businesses of both Primus and Arbinet during the transition period. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect Primus’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. In addition, 36 Table of Contents we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs or realize other efficiencies from integrating the businesses to offset part or all of the transaction and merger-related costs incurred by Primus and Arbinet. The financial forecasts of Primus that include the Arbinet business that may be included in future announcements and disclosures from time to time involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond the control of Primus. As a result, they may not prove to be accurate and are not necessarily indicative of current or future values or future performance. The financial forecasts of Primus that may be contained in future announcements and disclosures from time to time involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not a guarantee of future performance. The future financial results of Primus may materially differ from those expressed in the financial forecasts due to factors that are beyond Primus’s ability to control or predict. Primus cannot provide any assurance that any of its financial forecasts will be realized or that future financial results will not materially vary from the financial forecasts. The financial forecasts may cover multiple years, and the information by its nature becomes subject to greater uncertainty with each successive year. The financial forecasts do not take into account any circumstances or events occurring after the date they were prepared. The financial forecasts: • may make numerous assumptions, many of which are beyond the control of Arbinet or Primus and may not prove to be accurate; • may not necessarily reflect revised prospects for Primus’s businesses, changes in general business or economic conditions, or any other transaction or event that has occurred or that may occur and that was not anticipated at the time the forecasts were prepared; • may not be necessarily indicative of current or future values or future performance, which may be significantly more favorable or less favorable than is reflected in the forecasts; and • should not be regarded as a representation that the financial forecasts will be achieved. The financial forecasts may not be prepared with a view toward public disclosure or compliance with published guidelines of the SEC or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for preparation and presentation of prospective financial information or United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and may not reflect the effect of any proposed or other changes in U.S. GAAP that may be made in the future. The market value of Primus common stock could decline if large amounts of its common stock are sold following the Merger. Following the Merger, stockholders of Primus and former stockholders of Arbinet will own interests in a combined company operating an expanded business with more assets and a different mix of liabilities. Current stockholders of Primus and Arbinet may not wish to continue to invest in the additional operations of the combined company, or may wish to reduce their investment in the combined company, or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of their interests in Primus following the Merger. If, following the Merger, large amounts of Primus common stock are sold, the price of its common stock could decline. The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to Primus’s earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of Primus’s common stock. As of the filing date of this Form 10-K, Primus currently anticipates that the Arbinet merger will be accretive to U.S. GAAP earnings per share in 2012 and on an adjusted earnings per share basis in 2011. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. Primus could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits 37 Table of Contents anticipated in the merger. All of these factors could cause dilution to Primus’s earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and cause a decrease in the price of Primus’s common stock. Primus’s efforts to have Primus common stock listed for trading on the NASDAQ has not yet been successful, which results in limited liquidity for its stockholders. Primus has not yet succeeded in having its common stock listed on the NASDAQ, Arbinet stockholders would receive shares of Primus common stock that are not listed on a national securities exchange in return for their shares of Arbinet common stock, which were listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LIQUIDITY NEEDS AND DEBT SECURITIES We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such disposition may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. A significant portion of our future cash flow may need to be committed to repurchasing or redeeming certain outstanding debt prior to its stated maturity, rather than for use in our business operations. If Group and its “restricted subsidiaries” have Excess Cash Flow (as defined below) for any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, then the issuers of the 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2016 (the “13% Notes”) are obligated to jointly apply an amount equal to 50% of such Excess Cash Flow for such period (the “Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount”) and to make a joint offer to the holders of the 13% Notes to repurchase all or a portion of such notes as Units with an aggregate repurchase price in cash equal to the Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount (an “Excess Cash Flow Offer”). Excess Cash Flow means for any such fiscal year (a) the excess of (1) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) over (2) the sum, subject to certain exceptions, represented by: (i) capital expenditures; (ii) consolidated interest expense paid in cash; (iii) income and franchise taxes paid in cash; and (iv) reductions in certain indebtedness minus (b) the absolute value of negative Excess Cash Flow, if any. See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Within 110 days after the end of any fiscal year with respect to which an Excess Cash Flow Offer is required, an offer must be sent to each holder of 13% Notes stating the repurchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. With respect to each Excess Cash Flow Offer, the Issuers are entitled to reduce the applicable Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount by an amount equal to the sum of (x) the aggregate repurchase price paid for any 13% Notes repurchased by the Issuers in the open market or privately negotiated transaction (and, in each case, cancelled by the Issuers) and (y) the aggregate redemption price paid for any 13% Notes redeemed pursuant to one or more optional redemptions, subject to certain limitations. 38 Table of Contents If our outstanding 14 1/4% Senior Subordinated Secured Notes due May 2013 (the “14 1/4% Notes”) have not been refinanced in accordance with the terms of its indenture on or prior to January 21, 2013, then the Issuers will be required to redeem the 13% Notes in advance of the 14 1/4% Notes scheduled maturity at a price equal to the then applicable optional redemption price. If such early redemption of the 13% Notes are required or an Excess Cash Flow Offer is made, there can be no assurance that the Issuers will have available funds sufficient to pay for such redemption or for the Excess Cash Flow purchase price for all the 13% Notes that might be delivered by holders seeking to accept the Excess Cash Flow Offer. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. We must repay or refinance the 14 1/4% Notes prior to the maturity of the 13% Notes. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon us. The maturity of the 14 1/4% Notes is earlier than the maturity of the 13% Notes. While we expect to refinance the 14 1/4% Notes, we may not be able to do so or refinancing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete a refinancing of the 14 1/4% Notes prior to their maturity is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. For example, if disruption in the financial markets were to occur at the time that we intended to refinance the 14 1/4% Notes, we might be restricted in our ability to refinance that indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance the 14 1/4% Notes our alternatives would consist of negotiating an extension of such indebtedness with the holders and seeking or raising new capital. If we were unsuccessful, the holders of the 14 1/4% Notes could demand repayment of the indebtedness owed to them on May 20, 2013. As a result, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on such indebtedness would be adversely affected. We may not be able to repurchase the 14 1/4% Notes or 13% Notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of certain specific kinds of change of control events, we (or our subsidiaries) will be required to jointly offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus, without duplication, accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that they will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of all notes delivered by holders seeking to exercise their repurchase rights, particularly as that change of control may trigger a similar repurchase requirement for, or result in an event of a default under a debt indenture and may also constitute a cross-default on other indebtedness existing at that time. In addition, certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalization that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a “Change of Control” under the indenture. Our indentures governing our 14 1/4% Notes and 13% Notes contain significant operating and financial restrictions which may limit our ability and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to operate their business. The indentures governing our 14 1/4% Notes and 13% Notes contain significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions limit the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • create liens on certain assets to secure debt; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions; • purchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain investments; • transfer or sell assets; • agree to restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us or the issuers; 39 Table of Contents • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or an issuer’s assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit the ability of us and our subsidiaries to finance future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. We may be required to take action to reduce their debt or act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to do so. We may not be able to satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt could result in a default under such debt, which could lead to that debt becoming immediately due and payable and, if such debt is secured, foreclosure on our assets that secure that obligation. A default under a debt instrument could, in turn, result in a default under other obligations and result in other creditors accelerating the payment of other obligations and foreclosing on asset security such debt, if any. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial conditions and liquidity. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including debt secured by the collateral that secures our 14 1/4% Notes and 13% Notes, as well as other assets that do not secure such notes. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with those restrictions could be substantial. In addition, if we are able to designate some of the restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the notes as unrestricted subsidiaries, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. If we incur any additional secured debt that ranks equally with the 13% Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the 13% Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceedings. Adding new debt to current debt levels could intensify the related risks that we now face. The issuance of the 13% Notes may subject us to additional currency exchange risks. The 13% Notes were issued and paid for, and the interest to be paid on those notes will be paid, in U.S. dollars. However, the Canadian issuer of such notes receives revenues primarily in Canadian dollars (“CAD”). As a result, the financial condition of the Canadian issuer might be materially adversely affected if the U.S. dollar appreciates against the CAD. From time to time, if we determine it is appropriate and advisable to do so, we may seek to lessen the effect of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION We are subject to constantly changing regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, including the imposition of fees and taxes, the potential adverse effects which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that domestic, foreign or international regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, growth and financial performance. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the 40 Table of Contents informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Many regulatory actions are underway or are being contemplated by governmental agencies. For example, in connection with the promulgation of the “National Broadband Plan” announced in March 2010, in April 2010 the FCC stated its intention to initiate dozens of new proceedings to impose new requirements, or modify existing requirements, affecting essentially all entities involved in the provision of communications services. It is impossible to predict at this time what specific rules or requirements the FCC will propose or adopt, or how any such rules or requirements would affect our business or financial results. The Federal Communications Commission or Congress may revise how companies like us contribute to certain federal programs that could increase our costs, reduce our profitability, or make our services less competitive in the communications marketplace. In the U.S., the Communications Act and associated FCC regulations, require that every provider of interstate telecommunications carrier contribute, on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, to federal universal service mechanisms established by the FCC, which affects our cost of providing services. At present, these contributions are calculated based on contributors’ interstate and international revenue derived from U.S. end users for telecommunications or telecommunications services, as those terms are defined under FCC regulations. On April 21, 2010, the FCC issued certain specific new proposals regarding contributions to the universal service fund that, if adopted, could materially affect our own contributions to the fund. These new proposals would affect most of our competitors, but not all of our competitors would be affected in the same way or to the same degree as we would be. The FCC has also announced its intention to propose new rules regarding the universal service program during the first quarter of 2011. It is impossible to predict the impact of these new proposals, if adopted, on our operations and financial results. In addition, AT&T Inc. filed a “Petition for Immediate Commission Action” on July 10, 2009, requesting that the FCC adopt a new mechanism for calculating federal universal service fund contribution that would be applicable to all contributors, including us. The specific proposal, which has been pending at the FCC for some time, is to determine contributions to the USF based on “assessable telephone numbers” rather than interstate and international revenues. This AT&T proposal remains pending. We cannot predict whether the FCC will adopt this or some other contribution methodology, nor can we predict the potential impact on our business at this time. But a revised contribution methodology could increase our contribution obligation, including increasing our contribution disproportionately compared to some of our competitors. In such event, we may need to either raise the total amount of our consumer’s bills, potentially making us less competitive with other providers of communications services, or reduce our profit margins. In the United States and Canada, there is increasing regulation of Voice over Internet Protocol service offerings. Increased regulation may increase our costs, reduce our profit margins, or make our services less competitive in the communications marketplace. Increasingly, laws, regulations or rulings that apply to traditional telephone services are being extended to commerce and communications services that utilize Internet Protocol, including VoIP. The increasing growth of the VoIP market and popularity of VoIP products and services heighten the risk that governmental agencies will continue to increase the level of regulation applied to VoIP and the Internet. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial decisions or regulations concerning Internet Protocol products and services may have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulation may be targeted towards, among other things, fees, charges, surcharges, and taxation of VoIP services, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, filing requirements, consumer protection, public safety issues like E911, CALEA, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products 41 Table of Contents and services, any of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. The rules that the FCC has already extended to interconnected VoIP providers include: • Rules with respect to the use of CPNI requiring VoIP providers to adhere to particular customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of pre-defined limits and when using CPNI for marketing purposes, and requiring VoIP providers to take certain steps to verify a customer’s identity before releasing any CPNI over the telephone or the Internet, and to report unauthorized disclosures of CPNI. • In April 2010, the FCC adopted a Notice of Inquiry regarding the possible establishment of a voluntary “cyber security” certification program. At present it is not possible to predict whether any new formal or informal requirements will arise from this proceeding or how any such requirements might affect our business. • The disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act, which have been interpreted by the FCC to require interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to the telecommunications relay services fund and offer 711 abbreviated dialing access to relay services, and to ensure that VoIP services are accessible to persons with disabilities, if reasonably achievable. In August 2010, the FCC adopted a Further Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with respect to hearing aid compatibility requirements applicable to various services. We cannot predict at this time what new requirements the FCC will establish, if any, or how any such new requirements may affect us. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to configure VoIP networks in a manner that facilitates lawful surveillance under CALEA. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to permit customers to retain their assigned telephone numbers when changing carriers including newly established requirements to process customer carrier changes on an expedited basis. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to provide access to E911 emergency services on terms generally similar to those provided by traditional landline carriers. • In April 2010, the FCC adopted a Notice of Inquiry regarding the survivability of broadband infrastructure, including in the case of damage due to natural or human-caused disasters or public emergencies. • In December 2010, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry regarding “Next Generation 911” service. It is uncertain whether the FCC will adopt specific requirements arising from these proceedings or, if it does, how and whether any such requirements will affect us. • Rules requiring VoIP providers to pay regulatory fees based on reported interstate and international revenues, including universal service fees. In Canada the CRTC has extended rules to interconnected VoIP providers that are similar to certain of those described above for the U.S., which rules are also subject to change from time to time. In addition, the CRTC is currently conducting public proceedings on whether to recover its operating fees from all telecommunications service providers, including resellers such as us, rather than only from Canadian carriers; and on whether and how to redefine the Basic Service Objectives, for whose subsidization we and other telecom service providers are required to contribute a proportion of our Canadian telecom service revenues. We may become subject to increased obligations with regard to accessibility obligations for people with disabilities and more of our service offerings may become subject to disabilities access obligations In October 2010, the “Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act” was signed into law. The new law requires the FCC to initiate a proceeding to determine what services should be required to offer access for people with disabilities and what those accessibility requirements should entail. The FCC has initiated its rulemaking but the process is in its infancy. At this time, we cannot predict whether we will be subject to 42 Table of Contents additional accessibility requirements or whether any of our service offerings that are not currently subject to disabilities access requirements will be subject to such obligations. Proposed future U.S. federal income tax legislation could impact the Company’s effective tax rate. In May 2009, President Obama’s administration announced proposed future tax legislation that could substantially modify the rules governing the U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. These potential changes include, but are not limited to: (1) limitations on the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings; (2) limitations on the ability to claim and utilize foreign tax credits; and (3) deferral of various tax deductions until non-U.S. earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Many details of the proposal remain unknown, although if any of these proposals are enacted into law they could materially impact our effective tax rate. The applicability of changes in tax policy to our services will increase their cost to consumers thereby decreasing our competitive price advantage over the competing alternatives available to the customer. Further, we may be subject to liabilities for past taxes, surcharges, fees, penalties and interest. Unlike those of our competitors who offer traditional landline or wireless services, with respect to our VoIP services, we currently do not collect or remit state or municipal taxes, fees or surcharges on the retail charges we collect from our customers, except where we have determined we are required to do so based on tax law. In some jurisdictions we also did not collect and remit 911 surcharges. In some instances, we have received inquiries or demands from state and municipalities for taxes, fees or surcharges, including, in some instances, 911 fees. Depending on the state, statute or municipal code, we have maintained that these taxes, fees, or surcharges, including 911 fees, do not apply to us. However, recent changes in the law, at the federal, state and local level, may change our legal obligations. Accordingly, some taxes, fees or surcharges, including 911 fees, could apply to us retroactively and we could be subject to penalties and interest. Other international governmental regulation could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive and may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. We cannot make assurances that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in the future. International regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include: • ongoing regulatory proceedings regarding efforts by Telstra in Australia to increase prices and charges and to deny access to essential facilities and services needed by us to compete; • the ultimate outcome of the process launched by the Australian government to help fund the construction of a new national broadband network, including whether and the terms upon which (a) we will have access to such network, and (b) the duration for which the copper wire based last mile infrastructure we use to furnish broadband services using our DSLAM network infrastructure will be continued; • a regulatory reform package recently announced by the Australian government that, if enacted, will (a) separate Telstra’s retail arm from its international carrier services business (via either functional or structural separation); and (b) provide the ACCC with greater powers to set access prices; • general changes in access charges and contribution payments could adversely affect our cost of providing long-distance, wireless, broadband, VoIP, local and other services; and • regulatory proceedings in Canada determining whether and the extent to which regulation should mandate access to networks and interconnection including intra-exchange transport services which we use to interconnect our DSLAM colocation sites and high speed access to residential and business services. 43 Table of Contents Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations and prospects. We may be exposed to significant liability resulting from our noncompliance with FCC orders regarding E911 services. FCC rules require VoIP providers interconnected to the public switched telephone network to provide E911 service in a manner similar to traditional wireline carriers. This requirement took effect as of November 2005. Like many interconnected VoIP providers, Lingo, Inc. (“Lingo”), a subsidiary of ours which sells such services, was able to meet this deadline for some but not all of its customers. We sought a waiver from the FCC asking for additional time to complete deploying our E911 service. The FCC has not yet addressed our waiver petition. As of September 30, 2010, approximately 99% of our Lingo customers were equipped with E911 service as required by the FCC’s rules. If and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC order regarding E911 services we may be subject to fines, penalties, cease and desist orders prohibiting Lingo from providing service on the federal and state levels or any combination of the foregoing. The FCC rules also require interconnected VoIP providers to distribute stickers and labels informing customers of the limitations on their emergency services as compared with traditional landline E911 service, as well as to notify and obtain affirmative acknowledgement from customers that they are aware of those limitations. The FCC’s Enforcement Bureau released an order providing that the Enforcement Bureau will not pursue enforcement against interconnected VoIP providers that have received affirmative acknowledgement from at least 90% of their subscribers. We have received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers, and, therefore, believe that we have effectively satisfied this requirement. We may be exposed to significant liability based on the differences between our E911 services and those delivered by traditional providers of telephony services. Lingo’s current E911 services, like those offered by other providers of VoIP services, are more limited than the 911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of emergency assistance. Despite the fact that we have notified our customers and received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers that they understand the differences between the access Lingo provides to emergency services as compared to those available through traditional wireline telephony providers, affected parties may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of certain failures to comply with the FCC mandated E911 service for interconnected VoIP providers. Our resulting liability could be significant. In July 2008, the “New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008” was signed into law. Previously, interconnected VoIP providers, like us, did not have the same protection from potential liability as applied wireline or wireless 911 emergency calling services. This law provides public safety entities, interconnected VoIP providers and others involved in handling 911 calls the same liability protections when handling 911 calls from interconnected VoIP users as from mobile or wired telephone service users. In October 2008, the FCC issued regulations implementing the provisions of the new law that require other entities involved in the provision of E911 services to make the technical capabilities used in such services available to VoIP providers, like us, on reasonable terms. The applicability of the liability protection to 911 calling services that do not conform to the FCC’s rules is unclear. Additionally, any liability associated with 911 call placement and handling prior to the enactment of this new law would not be covered. Therefore, while this law provides significant liability protection to interconnected VoIP providers such as us, we may still face significant and material liability with respect to any past, present or future failures of our E911 service to function properly. We may be similarly exposed to liability in Canada in connection with emergency services associated with our VoIP services. A description of our regulatory obligations associated with our VoIP services in Canada is set forth under “Government Regulation.” 44 Table of Contents The Federal Communications Commission may impose additional E911 obligations on VoIP providers, like us, that may increase our cost, decrease our profits, or make our services less competitive with other providers of calling services. In September 2010, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking considering the imposition of additional E911 obligations on interconnected VoIP providers. Specifically, the FCC is considering requiring interconnected VoIP providers to determine automatically the physical location of their customer rather than allowing customers to manually register their location. Moreover, the Notice includes a tentative conclusion that all interconnected VoIP service providers that allow customers to use their service in more than one location (nomadic VoIP service providers such as us) must utilize automatic location technology that meets the same accuracy standards applicable to providers of mobile phone service providers. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding or its impact on us. In September 2010, the FCC released a Further Notice of Inquiry seeking additional comments on a number of issues including, but not limited to, whether nomadic interconnected VoIP providers, like us, should be required to offer automatic location information of their users without customers providing location information. The FCC also seeks comment on how far it can extend E911 obligations to other types of companies including device manufacturers, software developers and others. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding nor can we predict its potential impact on our business. The rates we pay to interconnected telecommunications carriers in the U.S. may increase, which may reduce our profitability or increase the retail price of our service. The FCC is considering reform of the methodology that regulated telecommunications carriers use to determine the appropriate payments for the exchange of traffic that is necessary to complete telephone calls to the traditional telephone network. In April 2010 the FCC announced its intention to issue a ruling clarifying network operators’ interconnection obligations. The FCC also announced its intention to issue proposed new rules governing the payments carriers make and receive in connection with the exchange of telecommunications traffic. This FCC proposal is now likely to be issued during the first quarter of 2011. The result of these actions, as well as any action the FCC may take in currently pending proceedings bearing on these issues, may be an increase in the rates we pay to such carriers to send traffic to or receive traffic from the traditional telephone network, which would increase our costs. Such a cost increase may result in us increasing the retail price of our service, which may make us less competitive in the communications marketplace, or may reduce our profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. We may not be able to comply with recent FCC requirements regarding the transfer of telephone numbers to other providers when customers change providers. In 2008, the FCC clarified that interconnected VoIP providers, such as us, are subject to its rules regarding transferring the telephone numbers of customers that choose to obtain service from other providers, including both interconnected VoIP providers and traditional carriers. In 2009, the FCC released an order that reduces the amount of time within which voice service providers must transfer a telephone number to a new provider. We, along with other VoIP providers, are now required to transfer telephone numbers on the shortened timeframe. We rely on our underlying, third party carriers to comply with these rules. Our third party, underlying carriers are currently in compliance with the FCC’s rules and we expect that they will remain in compliance. But should our underlying carriers fail to comply with the FCC rules, we may be subject to fines, penalties, or cease and desist orders. States in the U.S. may subject our service to state Universal Service Fund obligations. Several states have attempted to require nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state USFs. One state, Nebraska, engaged in litigation with a provider of interconnected VoIP services similar to us. On July 16, 2009, Kansas and Nebraska filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaratory ruling that states are 45 Table of Contents not preempted from requiring nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state USFs. The petition also sought a retroactive rule finding that states have been able to collect such contributions for an uncertain time period. On November 5, 2010, the FCC released an order granting the petition in part, clarifying that on a prospective basis states may extend USF contribution requirements to cover intrastate revenues of nomadic VoIP providers, so long as the state’s particular requirements do not conflict with federal law or policies. We cannot predict which states may seek to impose such contributions on us. Decisions by states to collect state USF contributions may result in increased state regulation of our service and increased costs associated with our services, which may lead to either low profits or a less competitively priced service. Typically, state USF fees would be passed on to consumers. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of individual state decisions or the impact such decisions might have on our business. We may become subject to state regulation for certain service offerings A number of states have adopted the position that offerings by VoIP companies like us are subject to state regulation. These states generally base their jurisdiction to regulate such offerings based on whether a VoIP company is able to determine the beginning and end points of communications and whether such communications occur entirely within the boundaries of the respective state. We believe that the Federal Communications Commission has preempted states from regulating VoIP offerings. We cannot predict how this issue will be resolved nor its impact on our business at this time but we could be subject to increased costs, reduced profitability, and fines or penalties. We require access to the Internet by us and our users in order to offer our services. If Internet access providers or other companies involved in handling Internet traffic are able to block, degrade or charge us so that we can offer quality services, we could incur additional costs or lose customers. Our service offerings require that customers have access to broadband Internet access at a sufficient bandwidth in order to support call quality and other related services. We and our customers rely on service providers that have significant market power in the broadband Internet access marketplace including incumbent providers of wireline telephone services, cable companies and wireless companies. It is possible that some of these providers could take measures to degrade or disrupt our services, or increase the cost to us or our users to obtain access to certain levels of bandwidth necessary to make our service offerings. The FCC’s jurisdiction to prohibit or regulate these activities is unclear due to a 2009 ruling of the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The FCC has taken the position that it has sufficient jurisdiction to issue regulations in this area. While interference with access to our products and services seems unlikely such broadband Internet access provider interference has occurred, in very limited circumstances in the U.S., and could result in a loss of existing users and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, thereby harming our revenue and growth. We are subject to the requirements of the Federal Trade Commission’s new “Red Flag” identity theft rules. We must comply with Section 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (“FACTA”) and rules of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) that require “creditors” to develop and effectuate written internal programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with their accounts. The rules became effective on January 1, 2011, and we may be deemed to be a “creditor” as defined in the FACTA. We are taking steps to ensure compliance with the FTC’s rules, but if and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the rules we may be subject to fines, penalties, compliance orders or any combination of the foregoing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 46 Table of Contents 