Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our stock. This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of December 31, 2006 and for the twelve months then ended contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the price of our stock Because of the difficulty in predicting the timing of particular sales within any one quarter, we are providing annual guidance only. Our actual quarterly operating results have varied in the past and are expected to continue to vary in the future. Fluctuating quarterly results can affect our annual guidance. If our quarterly or annual operating results, particularly our software revenues, fail to meet management’s or analysts’ expectations, the price of our stock could decline. Many factors may cause these fluctuations, including: • The difficulty of predicting demand for our software products and services, including the size and timing of individual contracts and our ability to recognize revenue with respect to contracts signed in a given quarter, particularly with respect to our larger customers; • Changes in the length and complexity of our sales cycle, including changes in the contract approval process at our customers and potential customers that now require a formal proposal process, a longer decision making period and additional layers of customer approval, often including authorization of the transaction by senior executives, boards of directors and significant equity investors; • Competitive pricing pressures and competitive success or failure on significant transactions; • Customer order deferrals resulting from the anticipation of new products, economic uncertainty, disappointing operating results by the customer, management changes, corporate reorganizations or otherwise; • The timing of new software product and technology introductions and enhancements to our software products or those of our competitors, and market acceptance of our new software products and technology; • Lack of desired features and functionality in our individual products or our suite of products; • Changes in the number, size or timing of new and renewal maintenance contracts or cancellations; • Unplanned changes in our operating expenses; 12 Table of Contents • Changes in the mix of domestic and international revenues, or expansion or contraction of international operations; • Our ability to complete fixed price consulting contracts within budget; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • Lower-than-anticipated utilization in our consulting services group as a result of increased competition, reduced levels of software sales, reduced implementation times for our products, changes in the mix of demand for our software products, mergers and consolidations within our customer base, or other reasons. Charges to earnings resulting from past or future acquisitions or internal reorganizations may also adversely affect our operating results. Under purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. As a result, any of the following or other factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: • Loss on impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets; • Changes in the useful lives or the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; • Accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities, in which case the related charges could be required to be included in earnings in the period in which the accrual is determined to the extent it is identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and • Charges to income to eliminate certain JDA pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure. In addition, fluctuations in the price of our common stock may expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Furthermore, any settlement or adverse determination of these lawsuits could subject us to significant liabilities. We may misjudge when software sales will be realized Software license revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon contracts signed and the related shipment of software in that quarter. It is therefore difficult for us to accurately predict software license revenues. Because of the timing of our sales, we typically recognize the substantial majority of our software license revenues in the last weeks or days of the quarter, and we may derive a significant portion of our quarterly software license revenues from a small number of relatively large sales. In addition, it is difficult to forecast the timing of large individual software license sales with a high degree of certainty due to the extended length of the sales cycle and the generally more complex contractual terms that may be associated with such licenses that could result in the deferral of some or all of the revenue to future periods. Our customers and potential customers, especially for large individual software license sales, are requiring that their senior executives, board of directors and significant equity investors approve such sales without the benefit of the direct input from our sales representatives. As a result, our sales process is less visible than in the past and our sales cycle is more difficult to predict. Accordingly, large individual sales have sometimes occurred in quarters subsequent to when we anticipated. We expect to experience continued difficulty in accurately forecasting the timing of deals. If we receive any significant cancellation or deferral of customer orders, or we are unable to conclude license negotiations by the end of a fiscal quarter, our operating results may be lower than anticipated. Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our software and related services. A regional and/or global change in the economy and financial markets could result in delay or cancellation of customer purchases. Historically, developments associated with terrorist attacks on United States’ interests, continued 13 Table of Contents violence in the Middle East, natural catastrophes or contagious diseases have resulted in economic, political and other uncertainties, and factors such as these could further adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. If demand for our software and related services decrease, our revenues would decrease and our operating results would be adversely affected which, in turn, may cause our stock price to fall. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts. Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, it is difficult to estimate when, if ever, we will receive significant revenues from these investments. Our decision to move to the JDA Enterprise Architecture may present new risks. We are developing our next generation JDA Enterprise Architecture solutions based upon service oriented architecture technologies. The JDA Enterprise Architecture is the technical platform developed by Manugistics and is based on Java J2EE. We made a decision in January 2007 to use JDA Enterprise Architecture as our primary technology platform, rather than the Microsoft .NET platform that had been our primary technology platform for new product development. A significant factor in selecting the JDA Enterprise Architecture is that it is more mature than the Portfolio-Enabled platform we had been developing because Manugistics began its development efforts approximately two years before we began developing our Microsoft .NET based applications. As a consequence, there are already over 100 customers that have installed and are using the JDA Enterprise Architecture in production. The risks of our commitment to the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform include, but are not limited to, the following: • The possibility that it may be more difficult than we currently anticipate to develop additional products for the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform, and we could incur costs in excess of our projections to complete the planned transition of our product suite; • The possibility that our sales organization may encounter difficulties in determining whether to propose existing products or the next generation JDA Enterprise Architecture products to current or prospective customers; • The possibility we may not complete the transition to the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform in the time frame we currently expect; • Our ability to transition our customer base onto the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform as additional products become available; • The possibility that it may take several quarters for our consulting and support organizations to be fully trained and proficient on this new technology and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties implementing and supporting new products or versions of existing products based on the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform; • We may be required to supplement our consulting and support organizations with JDA Enterprise Architecture proficient resources from our product development teams to support early JDA Enterprise Architecture implementations which could impact our development schedule for the release of additional JDA Enterprise Architecture products; and • Our long-term development activities on the Java J2EE technology platform may cause Microsoft to reduce their active support of JDA in the marketplace. 14 Table of Contents The risk associated with developing products that utilize new technologies remains high. Despite our increasing confidence in this investment and our efforts to mitigate the risks of the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform project, there can be no assurances that our efforts to migrate many of our current products and to develop new JDA Enterprise Architecture solutions will be successful. If the JDA Enterprise Architecture platform project is not successful, it likely will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. It may be difficult to identify, adopt and develop product architecture that is compatible with emerging industry standards The markets for our software products are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We continuously evaluate new technologies and when appropriate implement into our products advanced technology such as our current JDA Enterprise Architecture platform effort. However, if we fail in our product development efforts to accurately address in a timely manner, evolving industry standards, new technology advancements or important third-party interfaces or product architectures, sales of our products and services will suffer. Our software products can be licensed with a variety of popular industry standard platforms and are authored in various development environments using different programming languages and underlying databases and architectures. There may be future or existing platforms that achieve popularity in the marketplace that may not be compatible with our software product design. Developing and maintaining consistent software product performance across various technology platforms could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could adversely affect our results of operations We may face liability if our products are defective or if we make errors implementing our products Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated. As a result, they may occasionally contain design defects, software errors or security problems that could be difficult to detect and correct. In addition, implementation of our products may involve customer-specific configuration by third parties or us, and may involve integration with systems developed by third parties. In particular, it is common for complex software programs such as ours to contain undetected errors when first released. They are discovered only after the product has been implemented and used over time with different computer systems and in a variety of applications and environments. Despite extensive testing, we have in the past discovered certain defects or errors in our products or custom configurations only after our software products have been used by many clients. For example, we will likely continue to experience undetected errors in our JDA Enterprise Architecture applications as we begin to implement them at early adopter customer sites. In addition, our clients may occasionally experience difficulties integrating our products with other hardware or software in their environment that are unrelated to defects in our products. Such defects, errors or difficulties may cause future delays in product introductions, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or impair customer satisfaction with our products. We believe that significant investments in research and development are required to remain competitive, and that speed to market is critical to our success. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to enhance our existing products through internal development and strategic partnering, internally develop new products which leverage both our existing customers and sales force, and strategically acquire complementary solutions that add functionality for specific business processes to an enterprise-wide system. If clients experience significant problems with implementation of our products or are otherwise dissatisfied with their functionality or performance or if they fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, our market reputation could suffer, and we could be subject to claims for significant damages. There can be no assurances that the contract provisions in our customer agreements that limit our liability and exclude consequential damages will be enforced. Any such damages claim could impair our market reputation and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We may have difficulty implementing our products. Our software products are complex and perform or directly affect mission-critical functions across many different functional and geographic areas of the enterprise. Consequently, implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. We believe the implementation of our Transaction Systems and Services Industries solutions can be longer and more complicated than our other applications as they typically (i) appeal to larger customers who have multiple divisions requiring multiple implementation projects, (ii) require the execution of implementation procedures in multiple layers of software, (iii) offer a customer more deployment options and other configuration choices, and (iv) may involve third party integrators to change business processes concurrent with the implementation of the software. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with our customers, or damage to our reputation. In addition, certain of our services arrangements are fixed price arrangements whereby we are required to provide identified deliverables for a fixed fee. If we are unable to meet our contractual obligations under fixed-price contracts within our estimated cost structure, our operating results could suffer. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments and patents to protect our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the functionality of products overlap and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose access to critical third-party software or technology, our costs could increase and the introduction of new products and product enhancements could be delayed, potentially hurting our competitive position We license and integrate technology from third parties in certain of our software products. For example, we license the Uniface client/server application development technology from Compuware, Inc. for use in Portfolio Merchandise Management, certain applications from Silvon Software, Inc. for use in Performance Analysis by IDEAS, Cognos for use in JDA Reporting and JDA Analytics, and BEA Systems, Inc.’s WebLogic application for use in most of the applications acquired in the Manugistics transaction. Our third party licenses generally require us to pay royalties and fulfill confidentiality obligations. We also resell Oracle database licenses. If we are unable to 16 Table of Contents continue to license any of this third party software, or if the third party licensors do not adequately maintain or update their products, we would face delays in the releases of our software until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our software products. These delays, if they occur, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is also possible that intellectual property acquired from third parties through acquisitions, mergers, licenses or otherwise obtained may not have been adequately protected, or infringes another parties intellectual property rights. We may face difficulties in our highly competitive markets We encounter competitive products from a different set of vendors in each of our primary product categories. We believe that while our markets are still subject to intense competition, the number of competitors in many of our application markets has decreased over the past five years. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are feature and functionality, product reputation and quality of referenceable accounts, vendor viability, retail and demand chain industry expertise, total solution cost, technology platform and quality of customer support. The intensely competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new license fees. Our competitors may offer a lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. Any broadly-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. The enterprise software market continues to consolidate and this has resulted in larger, new competitors with significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we possess. This could create a significant competitive advantage for our competitors and negatively impact our business. The consolidation trend is evidenced by our acquisition of Manugistics Group, Inc., Oracle’s acquisitions of Retek, ProfitLogic, Inc., 360Commerce, and Global Logistics Technologies, Inc. (G-LOG), and SAP AG’s acquisitions of Triversity, Inc. and Khimetrics, Inc. Oracle did not compete with our retail specific products prior to its acquisitions of Retek, ProfitLogic, Inc., 360Commerce, and Global Logistics Technologies, Inc. It is difficult to estimate what long term effect these acquisitions will have on our competitive environment. We have encountered competitive situations with Oracle in certain of our international markets where, in order to encourage customers to purchase their retail applications, we suspect they have offered to license their database applications at no charge. We have also encountered competitive situations with SAP AG where, in order to encourage customers to purchase licenses of its non-retail applications and gain retail market share, they have offered to license at no charge certain of its retail software applications that compete with the JDA Portfolio products. If large competitors such as Oracle and SAP AG and other large private companies are willing to license their retail and/or other applications at no charge it may result in a more difficult competitive environment for our products. In addition, we could face competition from large, multi-industry technology companies that have historically not offered an enterprise solution set to the retail supply chain market. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully for customers or acquisition targets against our current or future competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent upon the retail supply chain Historically, we have derived over 75% of our revenues from the license of software products and the performance of related services to retail customers. This percentage decreased, as expected, to 52% in the second half of 2006 with the acquisition of Manugistics. However, since many of manufacturing and distribution customers acquired from Manugistics directly or indirectly supply products to the retail industry, the success of most of our customers is directly linked to general economic conditions, as well as those of the retail industry. In addition, we believe that the licensing of certain of our software products involves a large capital expenditure, which is often accompanied by large-scale hardware purchases or other capital commitments. As a result, demand for our products and services could decline in the event of instability or potential economic downturn. 17 Table of Contents We believe the retail industry has remained cautious with their level of investment in information technology during the uncertain economic cycle of the last few years. We remain concerned about weak and uncertain economic conditions, industry consolidation and the disappointing results of retailers in certain geographic regions. The retail industry will be negatively impacted if weak economic conditions or geopolitical concerns persist for an extended period of time. Weak and uncertain economic conditions have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact our revenues, including a potential deterioration of our maintenance revenue base as customers look to reduce their costs, elongate our selling cycles, and delay, suspend or reduce the demand for our products. As a result, it is difficult in the current economic environment to predict exactly when specific software licenses will close within a six to nine month time frame. In addition, weak and uncertain economic conditions could impair our customers’ ability to pay for our products or services. Any of these factors could adversely impact our business, quarterly or annual operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with international operations International revenues represented 40% of our total revenues in 2006 as compared to 41% and 40% of total revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. If our international operations grow, we may need to recruit and hire new consulting, sales and marketing and support personnel in the countries in which we have or will establish offices. Entry into new international markets typically requires the establishment of new marketing and distribution channels, as well as the development and subsequent support of localized versions of our software. International introductions of our products often require a significant investment in advance of anticipated future revenues. In addition, the opening of a new office typically results in initial recruiting and training expenses and reduced labor efficiencies associated with the introduction of products to a new market. If we are less successful in a new market than we expect, we may not be able to realize an adequate return on our initial investment and our operating results could suffer. We cannot guarantee that the countries in which we operate will have a sufficient pool of qualified personnel from which to hire, that we will be successful at hiring, training or retaining such personnel or that we can expand or contract our international operations in a timely, cost effective manner. If we have to downsize certain international operations, the costs to do so are typically much higher than downsizing costs in the United States, particularly in Europe. Our international business operations are subject to risks associated with international activities, including: • Currency fluctuations; • Higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations; • Lower consulting margins due to higher labor costs; • Unexpected changes in employment and other regulatory requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries; • Potentially negative tax consequences; • Difficulties in staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; • Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions; • Ability to negotiate and have enforced favorable contract provisions; • Repatriation of earnings; • The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • Anti-American sentiment due to the war with Iraq, and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain regions; • The effects of regional and global infectious diseases; 18 Table of Contents • Tsunamis, earthquakes and other acts of God; • The challenges of finding qualified management for our international operations; and • General economic conditions in international markets. We expect that an increasing portion of our international software license, consulting services and maintenance services revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. We use derivative financial instruments, primarily forward exchange contracts, to manage a majority of the foreign currency exchange exposure associated with net short-term foreign denominated assets and liabilities which exist as part of our ongoing business operations but we do not hedge ongoing or anticipated revenues, costs and expenses. We cannot guarantee that any currency exchange strategy would be successful in avoiding exchange-related losses. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and stockholders’ rights plan and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control Our certificate of incorporation, which authorizes the issuance of “blank check preferred” stock, our stockholders’ rights plan which permits our stockholders to counter takeover attempts, and Delaware state corporate laws which restrict business combinations between a corporation and 15% or more owners of outstanding voting stock of the corporation for a three-year period, individually or in combination, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a JDA stockholder may consider favorable. We sold 50,000 shares of a new designated series of preferred stock (the “Series B Convertible Preferred Stock”) to funds affiliated with Thoma Cressey Bravo Equity Partners in connection with our acquisition of Manugistics Group, Inc. on July 5, 2006. The Series B Convertible Preferred Stock contain certain voting rights that require us to get approval of a majority of the holders if we want to take certain actions, including a change in control. These voting rights could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that another stockholder may consider favorable. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled personnel Our success is heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate skilled personnel, including sales and marketing representatives, qualified software engineers involved in ongoing product development, and consulting personnel who assist in the implementation of our products and provide other services. The market for such individuals is competitive. For example, it has been particularly difficult to attract and retain product development personnel experienced in object oriented development technologies. Given the critical roles of our sales, product development and consulting staffs, our inability to recruit successfully or any significant loss of key personnel would adversely affect us. A high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel characterizes the software industry. It may be particularly difficult to retain or compete for skilled personnel against larger, better known software companies. For example, Google Inc. has opened a research and development center in the Phoenix area. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our current personnel, attract and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, or be able to assimilate the employees from any acquired businesses. We will continue to adjust the size and composition of our workforce to match the different product and geographic demand cycles. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel, or assimilate the employees from any acquired businesses, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on key personnel Our performance depends in large part on the continued performance of our executive officers and other key employees, particularly the performance and services of James D. Armstrong our Chairman and Hamish N. J. Brewer our Chief Executive Officer. We do not have in place “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Brewer, or other key executive officers or employees 19 Table of Contents without a successor in place, or any difficulties associated with a successor, could negatively affect our financial performance. We may have difficulty integrating acquisitions We continually evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies, including those that are significant in size and scope. In pursuit of our strategy to acquire complementary products, we have completed ten acquisitions over the past eight years including Manugistics Group, Inc. in July 2006. The risks we commonly encounter in acquisitions include: • We may have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • The challenge to integrate new products and technologies into our sales and marketing process, particularly in the case of smaller acquisitions; • We may have difficulty effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies, particularly where such products reside on different technology platforms; • Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition and integration issues; • We may not be able to retain key technical and managerial personnel from the acquired business; • We may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • We may have difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • Our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products could be adversely affected; • Our relationships with employees and customers could be impaired; • Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, legal or tax contingencies, and product development, among other things; • As successor we may be subject to certain liabilities of our acquisition targets; and • We may be required to sustain significant exit or impairment charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. We have incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the Manugistics acquisition, which will limit our operating flexibility In order to finance the acquisition consideration and repay certain indebtedness of Manugistics, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. This significant indebtedness requires us to: • Maintain a specific ratio of net debt to consolidated EBITDA; • Dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on this debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies and for general corporate purposes; • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; and • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. In addition, the terms of the financing obligations contain restrictions, including limitations on our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Create or incur liens; • Dispose of assets; 20 Table of Contents • Consolidate or merge with or acquire another entity; • Pay dividends, redeem shares of capital stock or effect stock repurchases; and • Make loans and investments. The requirements and limitations of the indebtedness increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, and limit our ability to respond to changes and challenges in our business. In addition, a failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under these financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that we are unable to cure or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our convertible preferred stock may adversely impact JDA and our common stockholders or have a material adverse affect on JDA. We have issued shares of Series B Preferred Stock in connection with the acquisition, the terms of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the filing of the Certificate of Correction on October 20, 2006, the Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference in the amount of $50 million plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, which must be paid before common stockholders would receive funds in the event of liquidation, including some changes of control and a redemption right after September 6, 2013 to receive a redemption value of $50 million. In addition, we are required to redeem the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock in certain circumstances, including a change in control. We have also agreed not to issue securities senior to or on a par with the Series B Preferred Stock while the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. The Manugistics product development center in India poses significant risks In 2005, Manugistics opened a product development facility in Hyderabad, India and moved a substantial portion of its product development to India. We plan to grow our employee base in this facility. In addition, we maintain relationships with third parties in India to which we outsource a portion of our product development effort, as well as certain customer implementation and support services. We will likely continue to increase the proportion of our product development work being performed at our facility in India in order to increase product development resources and to take advantage of cost efficiencies associated with India’s lower wage scale. We may not achieve the cost savings and other benefits we anticipate from this program. We may not be able to find or retain sufficient numbers of developers with the necessary skill sets in India to meet our needs. Further, we have a heightened risk exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India as we invest greater resources in our India facility. Economic and political instability, terrorist activities, military actions and other unforeseen occurrences in India could impair our ability to develop and introduce new software applications and functionality in a timely manner, which could put our products at a competitive disadvantage whereby we lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. Government contracts are subject to unique costs, terms, regulations, claims and penalties. Manugistics historically received a significant percentage of its revenue from time to time from contracts with the Federal Government. JDA has not historically received a significant percentage of its revenue from the Federal Government. As a result of the Manugistics acquisition, we acquired a number of contracts with the government. Government contracts entail many unique risks, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) early termination of contracts by the Government; (ii) costly and complex competitive bidding process; (iii) required extensive use of subcontractors, whose work may be deficient or not performed in a timely manner; (iv) significant penalties associated with employee misconduct in the highly regulated Government marketplace; (v) changes or delays in 21 Table of Contents Government funding that could negatively impact contracts; and (vi) onerous contractual provisions unique to the Government such as “most favored customer” provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments — None 