Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks relating to the CompanyOur revenues are concentrated in one asset and declines in production or other events beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Over 95% of our revenues come from our royalty interests in the Delhi field in Louisiana and our future revenues will be further concentrated in that field upon reversion of our working interest there, currently expected to occur during the fourth quarter of calendar year 2014. Any significant downturn in production, oil and gas prices, or other events beyond our control which impact the Delhi field could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are not the operator of the Delhi property, and our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of operations which we do not control. In June 2013, a fluids release from one or more previously plugged wells occurred at the Delhi field that resulted in a significant temporary downturn in the daily oil production at the Delhi field, which has impacted the revenues received from our royalty interest and has delayed the reversion date of our working interest. In addition, the event has prompted the operator to pursue a more conservative development plan for the balance of the field that projects a lower peak production rate occurring at a later date, offset by a lower rate of decline.Operating results from oil and natural gas production may decline; we may be unable to acquire and develop the additional oil and natural gas reserves that are required in order to sustain our business operations.In general, the volumes of production from crude oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline. In the near term, our production is heavily dependent on our 7.4% of royalty interests and the pending reversion to us of a 23.9% working interest in EOR production that began during March 2010 in the Delhi Field. In addition, our production will be impacted by the results of wells in which we have installed our GARP® technology and any future installations in which we are compensated with production or its equivalent. Although EOR production from proved reserves at Delhi has and is expected to grow over time and we expect to grow the number of GARP® installations, environmental or operating problems or lack of future investment at Delhi, lack of success in adding GARP® installations or a change in our GARP® compensation model without further development activities in new or existing projects or without acquisitions of producing properties, our net production of oil and natural gas could decline significantly over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.Some of our properties, including our Delhi interests, are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Operators of these properties may act in ways that are not in our best interest. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, result in lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.The types of resources we focus on have substantial operational risks.Our business plan focuses on the acquisition and development of known resources in partially depleted reservoirs, naturally fractured or low permeability reservoirs, or relatively shallow reservoirs. Shallower reservoirs usually have lower pressure, which translates into fewer natural gas volumes in place. Low permeability reservoirs require more wells and substantial stimulation for development of commercial production. Naturally fractured reservoirs require penetration of sufficient undepleted fractures to establish commercial production. Depleted reservoirs require successful application of newer technology to unlock incremental reserves.Our CO2-EOR project in the Delhi Field, operated by a subsidiary of Denbury Resources Inc., requires significant amounts of CO2 reserves, development capital and technical expertise, the sources of which to date have been committed by the operator. Although initial CO2 injection began at Delhi in November 2009, initial oil production response began in March 2010 and a large part of the capital budget has already been expended, substantial capital remains to be invested to fully develop the EOR project and further increase production. The operator's failure to manage these and other technical, environmental, operating, strategic, financial and logistical risks may cause ultimate enhanced recoveries from the planned 6Table of ContentsCO2-EOR project to fall short of our expectations in volume and/or timing. Such occurrences would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations.The existing well bores in which we are installing GARP® were originally drilled years or decades earlier. As such, they contain older casing or debris that could be more subject to failure, or the well files, if available, may be incomplete or incorrect. Such problems can result in the complete loss of a well or much higher costs. Expected results are based on theoretical estimates using historical data, which may not be complete or accurate, and thus such estimates may not prove accurate. Terms of compensation for installing GARP® may well change over time based on results achieved, industry acceptance, marketing efforts and other factors.Our projects generally require that we acquire new leases in and around established fields or other known resources, and drill and complete wells, some of which may be horizontal, as well as negotiate the purchase of existing well bores and production equipment or install our proprietary artificial lift technology that has yet to be universally proven. Leases may not be available and required oil field services may not be obtainable on the desired schedule or at the expected costs. While the projected drilling results may be considered to be low to moderate in risk, there is no assurance as to what productive results may be obtained, if any.Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial uncertain costs.Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and re-working existing wells involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including:•unexpected drilling conditions;•pressure fluctuations or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•environmental events;•inability to obtain or maintain leases on economic terms, where applicable;•adverse weather conditions;•compliance with governmental requirements; and•shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment.Drilling or re-working is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, horizontal drilling or CO2 injection or other injectants do not guarantee that we will find and produce crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells in economic quantities. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may also identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include horizontal drilling, hydraulic fracturing or tertiary injectants, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. The loss of a large single purchaser of our oil and natural gas could reduce the competition of our production.For the year ended June 30, 2014, seven purchasers accounted for all of our oil and natural gas revenues, with one purchaser accounting for over 95% of our sales. The loss of a large single purchaser for our oil and natural gas production could negatively impact the revenue we receive.Our patented GARP® technology may not achieve acceptance or widespread adoption by industry.We have developed, field tested and initiated commercialization of our artificial lift technology, GARP® (Gas Assisted Rod Pump), though it may not generate substantial value. Our further success in commercializing the technology will depend upon additional positive field tests, additional customers, acceptance by industry and our ability to defend the technology from competitors through confidentiality, trade secret and patent protection.We may be unable to continue licensing from third parties the technologies that we use in our business operations.7Table of ContentsAs is customary in the crude oil and natural gas industry, we utilize a variety of widely available technologies in the crude oil and natural gas development and drilling process. We do not have any patents or copyrights for the technology we currently utilize, except for the registered trademark and issued patent on our GARP® artificial lift technology that is in the process of commercialization. We generally license or purchase services from the holders of such technology, or outsource the technology integral to our business from third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on these sources of technology and assumes that such sources will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We cannot be certain whether any third-party patents will require us to utilize or develop alternative technology or to alter our business plan, obtain additional licenses, or cease activities that infringe on third-parties' intellectual property rights. Our inability to acquire any third-party licenses, or to integrate the related third-party products into our business plan, could result in delays in development unless and until equivalent products can be identified, licensed, and integrated. Existing or future licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party obligations or to protect our patent rights on GARP®.Our crude oil and natural gas reserves are only estimates and may prove to be inaccurate.There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. Our reserves are only estimates that may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas product prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times, may vary substantially.Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the 12-month average price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. PV-10 does not necessarily correspond to market value.Regulatory and accounting requirements may require substantial reductions in reporting proven reserves.We review on a periodic basis the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties under the applicable rules of the various regulatory agencies, including the SEC. Under the full cost method of accounting that we use, the after-tax carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net after-tax cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of this "ceiling" test requires pricing future revenues at the previous 12-month average beginning-of-month price and requires a write down of the carrying value for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded. We may in the future be required to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties when crude oil and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. Whether we will be required to take such a charge will depend in part on the prices for crude oil and natural gas during the previous period and the effect of reserve additions or revisions and capital expenditures during such period. If a write down is required, it would result in a current charge to our earnings but would not impact our current cash flow from operating activities.Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results.Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to 8Table of Contentsrelatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including:•worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;•the level of consumer product demand;•weather conditions;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations;•the price and availability of alternative fuels;•political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions;•the price and level of foreign imports; and•overall domestic and global economic conditions.It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, crude oil and natural gas prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 79% of our proved reserves at June 30, 2014 are crude oil reserves and 17% are natural gas liquids reserves, we are heavily impacted by movements in crude oil prices, which also influence natural gas liquids prices. To the extent that we have not hedged our production with derivative contracts or fixed-price contracts, any significant and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial position.We may have difficulty managing future growth and the related demands on our resources and may have difficulty in achieving future growth.Although we hope to experience growth through acquisitions and development activity, any such growth may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. Our ability to grow will depend upon a number of factors, including:•our ability to identify and acquire new development or acquisition projects;•our ability to develop existing properties;•our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel;•the results of our development program and acquisition efforts;•the success of our technologies;•hydrocarbon prices;•drilling, completion and equipment prices;•our ability to successfully integrate new properties;•our access to capital; and•the Delhi Field operator's ability to: (i) deliver sufficient quantities of CO2 from its reserves in the Jackson Dome, secure all of the development capital necessary to fund its and our cost interests and (ii) to successfully manage technical, operating, environmental, strategic and logistical development and operating risks, among other things.We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow or manage any such growth.Our operations require significant amounts of capital and additional financing may be necessary in order for us to continue our exploration activities, including meeting potential future drilling obligations.Our cash flow from our reserves may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we may require additional financing in order to carry out our oil and gas acquisitions, exploitation and development activities. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established. If our revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, it will affect our ability to expend the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our current production. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or available to us on favorable terms.Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations.Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, 9Table of Contentsstate and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages, whether actual or not, caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease or nearby properties. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us, such as diminishing the demand for our products through legislative enactment of proposed new penalties, fines and/or taxes on carbon that could have the effect of raising prices to the end user.For example, currently proposed federal legislation, that, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, includes the following:•Taxes. President Obama's Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Proposal includes provisions that would, if enacted , make significant changes to U.S. tax laws. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) eliminating the deduction from income for certain domestic production activities, (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures, and (iv) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; and•Hydraulic Fracturing. The U.S. Congress, the EPA and various states are currently considering legislation that could adversely affect the use of the hydraulic-fracturing process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. Any proposed legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation, permitting and restrictions at the federal level that could adversely affect the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources. Our insurance may not protect us against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed.The crude oil and natural gas business involves numerous operating hazards such as well blowouts, mechanical failures, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, hurricanes, flooding, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, which can result in (i) damage to or destruction of wells and/or production facilities, (ii) damage to or destruction of formations, (iii) injury to persons, (iv) loss of life, or (v) damage to property, the environment or natural resources. While we carry general liability, control of well, and operator's extra expense coverage typical in our industry, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Environmental events similar to that experienced in the Delhi Field in June 2013 could defer revenue, postpone the payout of our reversionary working interest or increase operating costs and maintenance capital expenditures. Due to their characteristics, we have been unable to insure our reversionary working interest and royalty interests against operating risks of the type experienced in June 2013.The loss of key personnel could adversely affect us.We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of any of whom could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our future success is dependent upon Robert S. Herlin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Randall D. Keys, our President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Daryl V. Mazzanti, our Vice President of Operations, for sourcing, evaluating and closing deals, capital raising, and oversight of development and operations. Presently, the Company is not a beneficiary of any key man insurance.Oil field service and materials' prices may increase, and the availability of such services and materials may be inadequate to meet our needs.Our business plan to develop or redevelop crude oil and natural gas resources requires third party oilfield service vendors and various material providers, which we do not control. We also rely on third-party carriers for the transportation and distribution of our production. As our production increases, so does our need for such services and materials. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our service and materials providers. Accordingly, there is a risk that any of our service providers could discontinue servicing our crude oil and natural gas fields for any reason or we may not be able to source the materials we need. Any delay in locating, establishing relationships, and training our sources could result in production shortages and maintenance problems, with a resulting loss of revenue to us. In addition, if costs for such services and materials increase, it may render certain or all of our projects uneconomic, as compared to the earlier prices we may have assumed when deciding to redevelop newly purchased or existing properties. Further adverse economic outcomes may result from the long lead times often necessary to execute and complete our redevelop plans.We cannot market the crude oil and natural gas that we produce without the assistance of third parties.10Table of ContentsThe marketability of the crude oil and natural gas that we produce depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third-party services, including crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities necessary to make the products marketable for end use. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in or delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition.We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies.Our competitors include major integrated crude oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent crude oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than ours. We may not be able to successfully conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Specifically, these larger competitors may be able to pay more for development projects and productive crude oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on hiring contract service providers, obtaining oilfield equipment and acquiring the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in our industry.We are, and in the future may become, involved in legal proceedings related to our Delhi interest or other properties or operations and, as a result, may incur substantial costs in connection with those proceedings.On August 23, 2012, we, and our wholly owned subsidiary NGS Sub Corp and Robert S. Herlin, our President, were served with a lawsuit filed in federal court by James H. and Kristy S. Jones. The plaintiffs allege primarily that the defendants wrongfully purchased the plaintiffs' 0.048119 overriding royalty interest in the Delhi Unit in January 2006 by failing to divulge the existence of an alleged previous agreement to develop the Delhi Field for EOR. Although we believe that the claims are without merit and not timely, and intend to vigorously defend against the claims, an adverse resolution of this proceeding could subject us to significant monetary damages and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In December 2013 we filed a lawsuit against the operator of the Delhi Field alleging that the operator improperly charged the payout account for capital expenditures and costs of capital, failed to adhere to preferential rights to participate in acquisitions within the defined area of mutual interest, breached the promises to assume environmental liabilities and fully indemnify us from such costs, and other breaches. We are seeking declaration of the validity of the 2006 agreements and recovery of damages and attorneys’ fees. The operator subsequently filed counterclaims, including the assertion that we owed it additional revenue interests pursuant to the 2006 agreements and that the transfer of our reversionary working interest from our wholly owned subsidiary to our parent corporation and subsequently to another wholly owned subsidiary breached their preferential right to purchase. We have denied their counterclaims as being without merit and not timely. We may incur significant legal costs in this matter and the outcome is uncertain. Ownership of our oil, gas and mineral production depends on good title to our property.Good and clear title to our oil, gas and mineral properties is important to our business. Although title reviews will generally be conducted prior to the purchase of most oil, gas and mineral producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not assure that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat our claim which could result in a reduction or elimination of the revenue received by us from such properties.Poor general economic, business, or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.During the last few years, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt, and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic recovery in the United States or abroad remains prolonged, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas, and NGLs, affect our vendors', suppliers' and customers' ability to continue operations, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.Risks Associated with Our StockOur stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.11Table of ContentsOur common stock is relatively thinly traded and the market price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example, during the year prior to June 30, 2014, our stock price as traded on the NYSE MKT ranged from $13.83 to $9.92. The variance in our stock price makes it difficult to forecast with any certainty the stock price at which an investor may be able to buy or sell shares of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could be subject to fluctuations as a result of factors that are out of our control, such as:•actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;•naked short selling of our common stock and stock price manipulation;•changes or fluctuations in the commodity prices of crude oil and natural gas;•general conditions and trends in the crude oil and natural gas industry;•redemption demands on institutional funds that hold our stock; and•general economic, political and market conditions.Our executive officers, directors and affiliates may be able to control the election of our directors and all other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval.Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 3.1 million shares, or approximately 10% of our beneficial common stock base. JVL Advisors LLC controls approximately 5.0 million shares or approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these holders could exercise significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.The market for our common stock is limited and may not provide adequate liquidity.Our common stock is relatively thinly traded on the NYSE MKT. In the year prior to June 30, 2014, the actual daily trading volume in our common stock ranged from 12,700 shares of common stock to a high of 2,254,100 shares of common stock traded. On most days, this trading volume means there is limited liquidity in our shares of common stock. Selling our shares is more difficult because smaller quantities of shares are bought and sold and news media coverage about us is limited. These factors result in a limited trading market for our common stock and therefore holders of our stock may be unable to sell shares purchased, should they desire to do so.If securities or industry analyst do not publish research reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our common stock could decline.Small, relatively unknown companies can achieve visibility in the trading market through research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish. To our knowledge there are four independent analysts that cover our company. The limited number of published reports by independent securities analysts could limit the interest in our common stock and negatively affect our stock price. We do not have any control over the research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If any analyst who does cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.The issuance of additional common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders.We currently have in place a registration statement which allows the Company to publicly issue up to $500 million of additional securities, including debt, common stock, preferred stock, and warrants. At any time we may make private offerings of our securities. The shelf registration is intended to provide greater flexibility to the company in financing growth or changing our capital structure. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent of such authorization, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as our board may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock now outstanding. We are also authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock , the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by our board of directors, of which, at least 317,319 shares of Series A Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding as of September 10, 2014. Such designation of new series of preferred stock may be made without stockholder approval, and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common stock now outstanding. Preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by:•exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock;12Table of Contents•receiving preferences over the holders of common stock regarding our surplus funds in the event of our dissolution, liquidation or the payment of dividends to Preferred stockholders;•delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; and•discouraging bids for our common stock.Our Series A Preferred Stock is thinly traded and has no stated maturity date.The shares of Series A Preferred Stock were listed for trading on the NYSE MKT under the symbol "EPM.PR.A" on July 5, 2011 and are thinly traded on the NYSE MKT. Since the securities have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares in the secondary market. An active trading market for the shares may not develop or, even if it develops, may not last, in which case the trading price of the shares could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be limited. We have the right to redeem all shares of Series A Preferred Stock at face value at any time.The market value of our Series A Preferred Stock could be adversely affected by various factors.The trading price of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock may depend on many factors, including:•market liquidity;•prevailing interest rates;•optional redemption by us;•the market for similar securities;•general economic conditions; and•our financial condition, performance and prospects.For example, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock to decrease.We could be prevented from paying dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock.Although dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are cumulative and arrearages will accrue until paid, preferred stockholders will only receive cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock if we have funds legally available for the payment of dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any senior shares or any documents governing our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock when payable. In addition, existing or future debt, credit facility arrangements, contractual covenants or arrangements we enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to pay any cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock.Furthermore, in some circumstances, we may pay dividends in stock rather than cash, and our stock price may be depressed at such time.Our Series A Preferred Stock has not been rated and will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt.Our Series A Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In addition, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the Series A Preferred Stock will be subordinated to any existing and future debt and all future capital stock designated as senior to the Series A Preferred Stock. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance potential acquisitions or the development of new properties and the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock do not require us to obtain the approval of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to incurring additional indebtedness. As a result, our existing and future indebtedness may be subject to restrictive covenants or other provisions that may prevent or otherwise limit our ability to make dividend or liquidation payments on our Series A Preferred Stock. Upon our liquidation, our obligations to our creditors would rank senior to our Series A Preferred Stock and would be required to be paid before any payments could be made to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock.We could be prevented from continuing to pay dividends on our Common Stock.Our board of directors declared dividends on our common stock for the first time in November 2013 and we have paid a total of three quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. However, there is no certainty that dividends will be declared by the board of directors in the future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be dependent upon the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, if any, our financial condition and business plan, restrictions contained in our Series A preferred stock and any debt instruments, contractual covenants or arrangements we may enter into, our anticipated capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors may think are relevant. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to pay any cash dividends on our common stock.13Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.