Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, common stock price, financial condition or results of operation. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We Are Exposed to Risks Associated With Worldwide Economic Slowdowns and Related Uncertainties. We are subject to macro-economic fluctuations in the U.S. economy. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could cause a slowdown in customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Recent macro-economic issues involving the broader financial markets, including the housing and credit system and general liquidity issues in the securities markets, have negatively impacted the economy and may negatively affect our growth. In addition, weak economic conditions and declines in consumer spending and consumption may harm our operating results. Purchases of our products are often discretionary. If the economic climate deteriorates further, customers or potential customers could delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which could impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reduced or delayed sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the current financial crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in customer payments of outstanding accounts receivable and/or customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively impacting our operations; and increased expense or inability to obtain future financing. If the negative macro-economic conditions persist, or if the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth, our results of operations may be harmed. We Rely on Continued Market Acceptance of Our Existing Products and Any Decline in Sales of Our Existing Products Would Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations. We currently market visible and infrared medical laser systems and delivery devices to the ophthalmology and aesthetics markets. We believe that continued and increased sales, if any, of these medical laser systems is dependent upon a number of factors including the following: • acceptance of product performance, features, ease of use, scalability and durability; • recommendations and opinions by ophthalmologists, dermatologists, plastic surgeons, other clinicians, and their associated opinion leaders; • clinical study outcomes; • price of our products and prices of competing products and technologies particularly in light of the current macro-economic environment, in which the availability of credit is limited and purchasers may delay capital investments or place additional emphasis on price when making their purchase decision; • availability of competing products, technologies and alternative treatments; and • level of reimbursement for treatments administered with our products. In addition, we derive a meaningful portion of our sales from recurring revenues including consumable EndoProbe devices and service. Our ability to increase recurring revenues from the sale of consumable EndoProbe devices will depend primarily upon the features of our current products and product innovation, ease 17 Table of Contents of use and prices of our products, including the relationship to prices of competing delivery devices. The level of our service revenues will depend on the quality of service we provide and the responsiveness and the willingness of our customers to request our services rather than purchase competing products or services. Any significant decline in market acceptance of our products or our revenues derived from the sales of laser consoles, delivery devices or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If There is Not Sufficient Demand for the Aesthetics Procedures Performed with Our Products, Practitioner Demand for Our Products Could be Inhibited, Resulting in Unfavorable Operating Results and Reduced Growth Potential. The global aesthetics market has seen a sharp contraction in 2008 and we have seen reduced demand for our products because most procedures performed using our aesthetics products are elective procedures not reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to purchase our aesthetics products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: • consumer confidence, which may be impacted by economic and political conditions; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • evolving customer needs; • the introduction of new products and technologies; • evolving surgical practices; • evolving industry standards; • the cost of procedures performed using our products; and • the cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser- or other light-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our aesthetics products, practitioner demand for our aesthetics products could be reduced, resulting in unfavorable operating results and lower growth potential. We Have More Indebtedness and Fewer Liquid Resources After the Acquisition of the Aesthetics Business of AMS and Laserscope, Which Adversely Affects Our Cash Flows and Business. In order to complete the Laserscope acquisition, we entered into financing arrangements and used the majority of our liquid resources. Prior to the acquisition, we had no debt outstanding but now we have $6 million outstanding against our current line of credit. The increased levels of debt and obligations do among other things: • make it more difficult for us to meet our payments and other obligations to other third parties; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • increase our sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; • result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; 18 Table of Contents • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. We Believe There May be a Risk as to Whether Our Current Liquidity and Capital Resources Will be Sufficient to Meet Our Planned Operating Requirements for the Next 12 Months. The Company’s credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank is an asset-based revolving line of credit. The amount of money the Company may borrow at any particular time is determined by the amount of eligible accounts receivables and inventory the Company has on hand at that particular time (the Borrowing Base). If at any time the amount outstanding under the credit line exceeds the Borrowing Base the Company will be required to pay the difference between the outstanding amount and the Borrowing Base immediately. With the current crisis in the global economy it is possible that customers will take longer to pay and or default on their payments. Under such circumstances the Borrowing Base may be reduced significantly, which will reduce the Company’s ability to borrow and will have a direct negative impact on the Company’s cash position. Management is of the opinion that the Company’s current cash and cash equivalents together with its credit facility provides sufficient liquidity to operate for the next 12 months, that the covenants contained in the Company’s credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank are reasonable and management expects to be able to meet these covenants. However if the Company is not able to perform as projected in its operating plan and becomes out of compliance with its debt covenants, Wells Fargo Bank would be entitled to exercise its remedies under the credit facility which include declaring all outstanding obligations thereunder due. For example, in August 2008 the Company was not in compliance with the debt service covenant contained in the credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank; however, the Company has obtained a waiver from the bank and was in compliance with the covenants in September 2008 and at January 3, 2009. We Depend on International Sales for a Significant Portion of Our Operating Results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large portion of our revenues from international sales. For the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009, our international sales were $21.6 million or 44.4% of total sales. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues, particularly ophthalmology, in the foreseeable future. None of our international revenues and costs has been denominated in foreign currencies, other than sales made by our French subsidiary. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our products more expensive and thus less competitive in foreign markets. The factors stated above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: • impact of recessions in global economies and availability of credit; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • performance of our international channel of distributors; • longer accounts receivable collection periods; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • cultural differences; • changes in foreign medical reimbursement and coverage policies and programs; • political and economic instability; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • foreign certification requirements, including continued ability to use the “CE” mark in Europe; 19 Table of Contents • reduced or limited protections of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • multiple protectionist, adverse and changing foreign governmental laws and regulations. Any one or more of these factors stated above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As we expand our existing international operations we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. These or other similar risks could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We Face Strong Competition in Our Markets and Expect the Level of Competition to Grow in the Foreseeable Future. Competition in the market for devices used for ophthalmic and aesthetics treatment procedures is intense and is expected to increase. Our competitive position depends on a number of factors including product performance, characteristics and functionality, ease of use, scalability, durability and cost. Our principal competitors in ophthalmology are Alcon Inc., Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Nidek Co. Ltd, Synergetics, Ellex Medical Lasers, Ltd. and Lumenis Ltd. Most of these companies currently offer a competitive, semiconductor-based laser system for ophthalmology. Also within ophthalmology, pharmaceutical alternative treatments for AMD such as Lucentis/Avastin (Genentech), and to a lesser extent Visudyne (Novartis) and Macugen (OSI Pharmaceuticals) compete rigorously with traditional laser procedures. In aesthetics our principal competitors are Cutera, Candela Corporation, Palomar Technologies, Inc., Sciton, Lumenis Ltd. and Cynosure. These competitors have more sales representatives supporting broader product lines. Some competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, product development, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. In both markets, some companies also have greater name recognition than we do and long-standing customer relationships. In addition to other companies that manufacture photocoagulators, we compete with pharmaceuticals, other technologies and other surgical techniques. Some medical companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new technologies or therapies that are more effective in treating conditions targeted by us or are less expensive than our current or future products. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Future Success Depends on Our Ability to Develop and Successfully Introduce New Products and New Applications. Our future success is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance of, manufacture and market new products. Successful commercialization of new products and new applications will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and effectively coordinate with our suppliers. In addition, we must successfully sell and achieve market acceptance of new products and applications and enhanced versions of existing products. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, price, safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, the development of new applications for these products, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. Our ability to market and sell new products may also be subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products or 20 Table of Contents enhanced versions of existing products and achieve market acceptance of new products and new applications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and would cause our net revenues to decline. While We Devote Significant Resources to Research and Development, Our Research and Development May Not Lead to New Products that Achieve Commercial Success. The Company’s ability to generate incremental revenue growth will depend, in part, on the successful outcome of research and development activities, including clinical trials that lead to the development of new products and new applications using our products. Our research and development process is expensive, prolonged, and entails considerable uncertainty. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with ophthalmic and aesthetics research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required to market such products successfully. The products currently in our development pipeline may not be approved by regulatory entities and may not be commercially successful, and our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of current or future competitors. Therefore, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. The Clinical Trial Process Required to Obtain Regulatory Approvals is Costly and Uncertain, and Could Result in Delays in New Product Introductions or Even an Inability to Release a Product. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals for our products are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, clinical trials but cannot be certain that the trials will ever result in the commercial sale of a product. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials showed promising results. Any of our products may produce undesirable side effects that could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. We, the FDA, or another regulatory authority may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if they or we believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. If We Cannot Increase Our Sales Volumes, Reduce Our Costs or Introduce Higher Margin Products to Offset Anticipated Reductions in the Average Unit Price of Our Products, Our Operating Results May Suffer. The average unit price of our products may decrease in the future in response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by our competitors or other factors. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or through new product introductions, our net revenues will decline. In addition, to maintain our gross margins we must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our products. If we cannot maintain our gross margins our business could be seriously harmed, particularly if the average selling price of our products decreases significantly without a corresponding increase in sales. We Rely on Patents and Proprietary Rights to Protect our Intellectual Property and Business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary information. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements that are significant to the development of our business. We have been issued sixteen United States patents and five foreign patents on the technologies related to our products and processes. We have approximately six pending patent applications in the United States and six foreign pending patent applications that have been filed. Our patent applications may not be approved. Along with the acquisition of the AMS/Laserscope aesthetic products, we acquired a royalty-free license to eleven of the AMS/Laserscope patents. In addition, we acquired a license to a Palomar patent under which royalties are 21 Table of Contents paid to Palomar based upon a percentage of sales of certain products acquired from AMS/Laserscope. Any patents granted now or in the future may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and development by our competitors of competing products. Moreover, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. Patents have a limited lifetime and once a patent expires competition may increase. For example our “Connector Patent” used to connect our delivery devices (consumable & durable) to our laser consoles will expire in 2009. Delivery devices which do not utilize our Connector Patent technology are not recognized by our laser consoles. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large portion of our recurring revenue and profits from sales of our consumable EndoProbe devices. Expiration of this patent may increase competition from our competitors for our consumable EndoProbe device business and there can be no guarantees that we will maintain our market share of this business. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we seek to protect, in part, through proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. Our proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants contain industry standard provisions requiring such individuals to assign to us without additional consideration any inventions conceived or reduced to practice by them while employed or retained by us, subject to customary exceptions. Proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and others may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, our trade secrets may become known to or independently developed by competitors. The laser and medical device industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Numerous patents are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Until recently patent applications were maintained in secrecy in the United States until the patents issued. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published eighteen months after the filing date. However, since patent applications continue to be maintained in secrecy for at least some period of time, both within the United States and with regards to international patent applications, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe any patents or patent applications held by third parties. We have, from time to time, been notified of, or have otherwise been made aware of, claims that we may be infringing upon patents or other proprietary intellectual property owned by others. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or proprietary intellectual property. Although patent holders commonly offer such licenses, licenses under such patents or intellectual property may not be offered or the terms of any offered licenses may not be reasonable. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we are successful on the merits, would be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. For example, during fiscal year 2007, the Company settled patent litigations with Synergetics, Inc., which was time-consuming, costly and a diversion of technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Rely on Our Direct Sales Force and Network of International Distributors to Sell Our Products and any Failure to Maintain Our Direct Sales Force and Distributor Relationships Could Harm Our Business. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenues depends upon our direct sales force within the United States and relationships with independent distributors outside the United States. Currently our direct sales force consists of 16 employees and we maintain relationships with approximately 100 independent distributors 22 Table of Contents internationally selling our products into 107 countries. We generally grant our distributors exclusive territories for the sale of our products in specified countries. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our distributors to the sales of our products is not within our control. Our international sales are entirely dependent on the efforts of these third parties. If any distributor breaches terms of its distribution agreement or fails to generate sales of our products, we may be forced to replace the distributor and our ability to sell our products into that exclusive sales territory would be adversely affected. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. We may be unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, which may limit our revenues and our ability to maintain market share. The loss of the services of these key personnel would harm our business. Similarly, our distributor agreements are generally terminable at will by either party and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, which would affect our international sales and results of operations. We have Remediated the Material Weakness in Our Internal Controls and Procedures but still have Significant Deficiencies which could Harm Our Operating Results or Cause Us to Fail to Meet Our Regulatory or Reporting Obligations We evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level and that the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our financial reporting process identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2007 has been remediated. See Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the evaluation we did note several significant deficiencies, which related to our need to: establish additional controls over our accounting close process; improve our controls over demo and loaner inventory; and institute more stringent data backup and recovery procedures. A significant deficiency is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting. We are taking steps designed to remedy the significant deficiencies noted above. However, if despite our remediation efforts, we fail to remediate the significant deficiencies, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our disclosure controls and procedures. It is also possible that failure to remediate the significant deficiencies discussed above or other matters may result in the Company concluding in future periods that there is a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures. Even if we are to successfully remediate such significant deficiencies, because of inherent limitations, our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect misstatements or material omissions. Projections or any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If We Lose Key Personnel or Fail to Integrate Replacement Personnel Successfully, Our Ability to Manage Our Business Could Be Impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our Company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. On October 16, 2007, Barry G. Caldwell resigned as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, effective as of that date. Upon Mr. Caldwell’s resignation, Theodore A. Boutacoff, the Company’s current Chairman of the Board, returned to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Boutacoff was the Company’s President and Director from 1989 until 2005. On July 20, 2007, Meryl A. Rains resigned as the 23 Table of Contents Company’s Chief Financial Officer. An interim Chief Financial Officer was hired for the interim period until James H. Mackaness was hired as full time Chief Financial Officer on January 2, 2008. Key personnel, including certain members of our aesthetics sales force who joined the Company in connection with the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope, have left the Company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of Company initiatives, and the results of our operations. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and the San Francisco Bay Area, as well as other geographic markets in which we recruit, is intense and characterized by increasing salaries, which may increase our operating expenses or hinder our ability to recruit qualified candidates. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. If We Fail to Accurately Forecast Demand For Our Product and Component Requirements For the Manufacture of Our Product, We Could Incur Additional Costs or Experience Manufacturing Delays and May Experience Lost Sales or Significant Inventory Carrying Costs. We use quarterly and annual forecasts based primarily on our anticipated product orders to plan our manufacturing efforts and determine our requirements for components and materials. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our product and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for such components. If we overestimate the demand for our product, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate demand for our product and consequently, our component and materials requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing, delay delivery of our product to our customers and result in the loss of customer sales. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results. We Depend on Sole Source or Limited Source Suppliers. We rely on third parties to manufacture substantially all of the components used in our products, including optics, laser diodes and crystals. We have some long term or volume purchase agreements with our suppliers and currently purchase components on a purchase order basis. Some of our suppliers and manufacturers are sole or limited sources. In addition, some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time. For example, Synergetics Inc. currently is the sole source supplier of the Company’s line of adjustable laser probes under a non-exclusive agreement. There are risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers, including the following: • unavailability of, shortages or limitations on the ability to obtain supplies of components in the quantities that we require; • delays in delivery or failure of suppliers to deliver critical components on the dates we require; • failure of suppliers to manufacture components to our specifications, and potentially reduced quality; and • inability to obtain components at acceptable prices. Our business and operating results may suffer from the lack of alternative sources of supply for critical sole and limited source components. The process of qualifying suppliers is complex, requires extensive testing with our products, and may be lengthy, particularly as new products are introduced. New suppliers would have to be educated in our production processes. In addition, the use of alternate components may require design alterations to our products and additional product testing under FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agency guidelines, which may delay sales and increase product costs. Any failures by our vendors to adequately supply limited and 24 Table of Contents sole source components may impair our ability to offer our existing products, delay the submission of new products for regulatory approval and market introduction, materially harm our business and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Establishing our own capabilities to manufacture these components would be expensive and could significantly decrease our profit margins. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to obtain components in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted. We Face Risks Associated with Our Collaborative and OEM Relationships. Our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from collaborations with us or may not devote sufficient resources to the marketing and sale of such products. We cannot provide assurance that these types of relationships will continue over a longer period. Our reliance on others for clinical development, manufacturing and distribution of our products may result in unforeseen problems. Further, our collaborative partners may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others. If a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us, our ability to develop, introduce, market and sell the product may be significantly impaired and we may be forced to discontinue altogether the product resulting from the collaboration. We may not be able to negotiate alternative collaboration agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure of any current or future collaboration efforts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Collaborative Relationships to Develop, Introduce and Market New Products, Product Enhancements and New Applications. We depend on both clinical and commercial collaborative relationships. We entered into a Product Supply Agreement with AMS in connection with the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope, pursuant to which AMS manufactured several of our aesthetics products. With the exception of some service parts, we transitioned the manufacturing for the majority of these products to our facilities during the fourth quarter of 2007. We are party to a Manufacture and Supply Agreement with Synergetics, Inc. pursuant to which Synergetics manufactures the Company’s line of adjustable laser probes on a non-exclusive basis. We have entered into collaborative relationships with academic medical centers and physicians in connection with the research and innovation and clinical testing of our products. Commercially, we currently collaborate with Bausch & Lomb to design and manufacture a solid-state green wavelength (532nm) laser photocoagulator module for Bausch & Lomb, called the Millennium Endolase module. The Millennium Endolase module is designed to be a component of Bausch & Lomb’s ophthalmic surgical suite product offering and is not expected to be sold as a stand-alone product. Sales of the Millennium Endolase module are dependent upon the actual order rate from and shipment rate to Bausch & Lomb, which depends on the efforts of our partner and is beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our relationship with Bausch & Lomb will result in further sales of our Millennium Endolase module. The failure to obtain any additional future clinical or commercial collaborations and the resulting failure or success of such arrangements of any current or future clinical or commercial collaboration relationships could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If We Fail to Maintain Our Relationships With Health Care Providers, Customers May Not Buy Our Products and Our Revenue and Profitability May Decline. We market our products to numerous health care providers, including physicians, hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, government affiliated groups and group purchasing organizations. We have developed and strive to maintain close relationships with members of each of these groups who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. We rely on these groups to recommend our products to their patients and to other members of their organizations. The failure of our existing products and any new products we may introduce to retain the support of these various groups could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We Face Manufacturing Risks. The manufacture of our infrared and visible laser consoles and the related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical subassemblies and substantially all of our final products at our facility in Mountain View, California. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality control issues or assembly constraints, particularly with regard to new products that we may introduce. If our sales increase substantially, including increases in the sales of our aesthetics products, we may need to increase our production capacity and may not be able to do so in a timely, effective, or cost efficient manner. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products, which may require that we qualify other manufacturers for our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations and as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively impact our net revenues. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate from Quarter to Quarter and Year to Year. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include the following: • general economic uncertainties and political concerns; • the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and new applications; • changes in demand for our existing line of ophthalmology and aesthetics products; • the cost and availability of components and subassemblies, including the willingness and ability of our sole or limited source suppliers to timely deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned; • our ability to maintain sales volumes at a level sufficient to cover fixed manufacturing and operating costs; • fluctuations in our product mix between ophthalmology and aesthetics products and foreign and domestic sales; • our ability to address our liquidity issues should the need occur; • the effect of regulatory approvals and changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; • introduction of new products, product enhancements and new applications by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; • our long and highly variable sales cycle; • changes in the prices at which we can sell our products; • changes in customers’ or potential customers’ budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products; and • increased product innovation costs. In addition to these factors, our quarterly results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by seasonal factors. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We encountered this adverse effect on our operating results in each of the last eight quarters ended starting with the quarter ended March 31, 2007 through the quarter ended January 3, 2009. In addition, we have historically made a significant portion of each quarter’s 26 Table of Contents product shipments near the end of the quarter. If that pattern continues, any delays in shipment of products could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for such quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below expectations, which would likely cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our Stock Price Has Been and May Continue to be Volatile and an Investment in Our Common Stock Could Suffer a Decline in Value. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant clinical achievements, changes in market valuations of other similar companies in our industry and general market conditions. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been significantly adversely affected by our recent operating performance and by liquidity issues. In the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $4.29 per share to a low of $0.82 per share. There can be no assurance our common stock trading price will not suffer additional declines. From time to time, we meet with investors and potential investors. In addition, we receive attention from securities analysts and present at some analyst meetings. Our common stock may experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes. These broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. Inability of Obtaining Credit or Material Increases in Interest Rates May Harm Our Sales. Some of our products are sold to health care providers in general practice. Many of these health care providers purchase our products with funds they secure through various financing arrangements with third party financial institutions, including credit facilities and short-term loans. If availability of credit becomes more limited, or interest rates increase, these financing arrangements will be harder to obtain or more expensive to our customers, which may decrease demand for our products. Any reduction in the sales of our products would cause our business to suffer. We Are Subject To Government Regulations Which May Cause Us to Delay or Withdraw the Introduction of New Products or New Applications for Our Products. The medical devices that we market and manufacture are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by foreign and state governments. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the related regulations, the FDA regulates the design, development, clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion of medical devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the market, the product must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory review process implemented by the FDA under federal law. Unless otherwise exempt, a device manufacturer must obtain market clearance through either the 510(k) premarket notification process or the lengthier premarket approval application (PMA) process. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the device and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the FDA process can take several years, require extensive clinical testing and result in significant expenditures. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown safety issues may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Other countries also have extensive regulations regarding clinical trials and testing prior to new product introductions. Our failure to obtain government approvals or any delays in receipt of such approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA imposes additional regulations on manufacturers of approved medical devices. We are required to comply with the applicable Quality System regulations and our manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed as part of the product approval process before being utilized for commercial manufacturing. 27 Table of Contents Noncompliance with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. Any of these actions by the FDA would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue operating our business and the results of our operations. In addition, we are also subject to varying product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. As a result of our sales in Europe, we are required to have all products “CE” marked, an international symbol affixed to all products demonstrating compliance with the European Medical Device Directive and all applicable standards. While currently all of our released products are CE marked, continued certification is based on the successful review of our quality system by our European Registrar during their annual audit. Any loss of certification would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If We Fail to Comply With the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and Laser Performance Standards Our Manufacturing Operations Could Be Halted, and Our Business Would Suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding risk factor above, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. If We Modify One of Our FDA Approved Devices, We May Need to Seek Reapproval, Which, if Not Granted, Would Prevent Us from Selling Our Modified Products or Cause Us to Redesign Our Products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenues and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. The Requirements of Complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Might Strain Our Resources, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Condition. We are subject to a number of requirements, including the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are now required to comply with certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which require management to perform an assessment of internal control over financial reporting. These requirements might place a strain on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure 28 Table of Contents controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we might need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. Because We Do Not Require Training for Users of Our Products, and Sell Our Products to Non-physicians, There Exists an Increased Potential for Misuse of Our Products, Which Could Harm Our Reputation and Our Business. Federal regulations restrict the sale of our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We, and our distributors, generally offer but do not require purchasers or operators of our products to attend training sessions. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedure. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. Some of Our Laser Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects That Are Not Detected Until Deployed By Our Customers, Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues. Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve such yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on certain of our product sales, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of failure rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of revenues may be required in future periods. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: • loss of customers; • increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; • damage to our brand reputation; • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and engineering resources; and • legal actions by our customers. 29 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Products Could Be Subject to Recalls Even After Receiving FDA Approval or Clearance. A Recall Would Harm Our Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. A recall could divert management’s attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our future sales. If We Fail to Manage Growth Effectively, Our Business Could Be Disrupted Which Could Harm Our Operating Results. We have experienced and may in the future experience growth in our business, both organically and through the acquisition of businesses and products. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, new product innovation and clinical trials for new applications and products. We must also be prepared to expand our work force and to train, motivate and manage additional employees as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Product Liability Claims are Successfully Asserted Against Us, We may Incur Substantial Liabilities That May Adversely Affect Our Business or Results of Operations. We may be subject to product liability claims from time to time. Our products are highly complex and some are used to treat extremely delicate eye tissue and skin conditions on and near a patient’s face. We believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance but product liability insurance is expensive and we might not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us, if at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Operating Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Third Party Coverage and Reimbursement Policies and any Uncertainty Regarding Healthcare Reform Measures. Our ophthalmology products are typically purchased by doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users, which bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing and challenging the coverage of new products and the level of reimbursement for covered products. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may not obtain adequate reimbursement for use of our products from third-party payers. While we believe that the laser procedures using our products have generally been reimbursed, payers may deny coverage and reimbursement for our products if they determine that the device was not reasonable and necessary for the purpose used, was investigational or was not cost-effective. Changes in government legislation or regulation or in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products may prohibit adequate reimbursement. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, reduce the costs of healthcare and change medical reimbursement policies. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may decline to purchase our products to the extent there is uncertainty regarding reimbursement of medical procedures using our products and any healthcare reform measures. Further proposed legislation, regulation and policy changes affecting third party reimbursement are likely. We are unable to predict what legislation or 30 Table of Contents regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation may have on us. However, denial of coverage and reimbursement of our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Our Facilities Were To Experience Catastrophic Loss, Our Operations Would Be Seriously Harmed. Our facilities could be subject to catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. All of our research and development activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in Mountain View, California. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expense to repair and replace our facilities. Our Business is Subject to Environmental Regulations. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety requirements of the United States and foreign countries, including those relating to discharges of substances to the air, water and land the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. Failure to maintain compliance with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In the future, federal, state or local governments in the United States or foreign countries could enact new or more stringent laws or issue new or more stringent regulations concerning environmental and worker health and safety matters that could affect our operations. Also, in the future, contamination may be found to exist at our current or former facilities or off-site locations where we have sent wastes. We could be held liable for such newly discovered contamination which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In addition, changes in environmental and worker health and safety requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 