ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In analyzing our Company, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following subsection, as well as those discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of the following risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Company. General Risks We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may cause our revenues to decline. The Company consolidates companies in the homeland security industry. Until its acquisition of Nexus in 2006, its joint venture with Polimaster in 2006 and its acquisition of Safety in March 2008, the Company had not generated any revenues since 2002, other than interest income on its cash. The Company’s ability to generate revenues and earnings (if any) will be directly dependent upon the operating results of such acquired business and any additional acquisitions, and the successful integration and consolidation of those businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in generating revenues and earnings based on our business model. We are dependent upon key personnel who would be difficult to replace and whose loss could impede our development. The Company believes that its success depends principally upon the experience of C. Thomas McMillen, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher P. Leichtweis, its President, and Michael T. Brigante, its Chief Financial Officer. Although Messrs. McMillen and Brigante have substantial experience in acquiring and consolidating businesses, our acquired companies personnel do not have significant experience in managing companies formed for the specific purpose of consolidating one or more companies. Additionally, Messrs. McMillen and Brigante did not have experience in managing companies in the various sectors of the homeland security industry. As a result, the Company likely will rely significantly on the senior management of the businesses it acquires. Such acquired senior management may not be suitable to the Company’s business model or combined operations. If the Company loses the services of one or more of its current executives, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company may not successfully recruit additional personnel and any additional personnel that are recruited may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary or desirable to enhance the incumbent management. Appropriate acquisitions may not be available, which may adversely affect our growth. The results of the Company’s planned operations are dependent upon the Company’s ability to identify, attract and acquire additional desirable acquisition candidates, which may take considerable time. Our acquisition strategy is important to the success of our business because it supports our strategy of selling a broad platform of integrated offerings to customers who we believe prefer to buy multiple products and service offerings from fewer vendors. The Company may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring additional acquisition candidates, in integrating such candidates into the Company or in realizing profits from any acquisition candidates, if acquired. Other companies also pursue acquisitions of companies in the homeland security marketplace and we expect competition for acquisition candidates in our industry to increase, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring target companies, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ product and service offerings with our existing offerings and sales channels, which would reduce the benefits to us of the acquisitions and limit the effectiveness of our strategy. The failure to complete additional acquisitions or to operate the acquired companies profitably would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents If our consolidation strategy is not successful, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. One of the Company’s strategies is to increase its revenues, the range of products and services that it offers and the markets that it serves through the acquisition of additional homeland security businesses. To date, the Company has completed three acquisitions and divested one of those acquisitions. Investors have no basis on which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any future acquisition candidates’ operations and prospects that management may identify. Although management of the Company will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition candidate, the Company may not properly ascertain all of such risks. Additionally, management of the Company has significant flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates. Management may not succeed in selecting acquisition candidates that will be profitable or that can be integrated successfully. Although the Company intends to scrutinize closely the management of a prospective acquisition candidate in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, the Company’s assessment of management may not prove to be correct. The Company may enlist the assistance of other persons to assess the management of acquisition candidates. Finally, the Company will seek to improve the profitability and increase the revenues of acquired businesses by various means, including combining administrative functions, eliminating redundant facilities, implementing system and technology improvements, purchasing products and services in large quantities and cross-selling products and services. The Company’s ability to increase revenues will be affected by various factors, including the Company’s ability to expand the products and services offered to the customers of acquired companies, develop national accounts and attract and retain a sufficient number of employees to perform the Company’s services. There can be no assurance that the Company’s internal growth strategies will be successful. Competition and industry consolidation may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. The Company expects to face significant competition to acquire homeland security businesses from larger companies that currently pursue, or are expected to pursue, acquisitions as part of their growth strategies and as the industry undergoes continuing consolidation. Such competition could lead to higher prices being paid for acquired companies. The Company believes that the homeland security industry will undergo considerable consolidation during the next several years. The Company expects that, in response to such consolidation and in light of the Company’s financial resources, it will consider from time to time additional strategies to enhance stockholder value. These include, among others, strategic alliances and joint ventures; purchase, sale and merger transactions with other large companies; and other similar transactions. In considering any of these strategies, the Company will evaluate the consequences of such strategies, including, among other things, the potential for leverage that would result from such a transaction, the tax effects of the transaction, and the accounting consequences of the transaction. In addition, such strategies could have various other significant consequences, including changes in management, control or operational or acquisition strategies of the Company. There can be no assurance that any one of these strategies will be undertaken, or that, if undertaken, any such strategy will be completed successfully. Failure to qualify for investment company act exemptions could adversely affect our growth and financial condition. The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act also may apply to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities that bring it within the Investment Company Act’s definition of an investment company. The Company believes that its principal activities, which involve acquiring control of operating companies and providing managerial and consulting services, will not subject the Company to registration and regulation under the Investment Company Act. The Company intends to remain exempt from investment company regulation either by not engaging in investment company activities or by qualifying for the exemption from investment company regulation available to any company that has no more than 45% of its total assets invested in, and no more than 45% of its income derived from, investment securities, as defined in the Investment Company Act. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid registration and regulation as an investment company. In the event the Company is unable to avail itself of an exemption or safe harbor from the Investment Company Act, the Company may become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company’s activities, as noted below, and contracts entered into by the Company at such time that it was an unregistered investment company may be unenforceable. The Investment Company Act imposes substantial requirements on registered investment companies including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on certain investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Potential tax consequences of our acquisitions may adversely affect our financial conditions. As a general rule, federal and state tax laws and regulations have a significant impact upon the structuring of business combinations. The Company will evaluate the possible tax consequences of any prospective business combination and will endeavor to structure the business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to the Company, the acquisition candidate and their respective stockholders. Nonetheless, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or appropriate state tax authorities may not ultimately agree with the Company’s tax treatment of a consummated business combination. To the extent that the IRS or state tax authorities ultimately prevail in re-characterizing the tax treatment of a business combination, there may be adverse tax consequences to the Company, the acquisition candidate and/or their respective stockholders. Our financial condition could be harmed if businesses we acquire failed to comply with applicable laws or have other undisclosed liabilities. Any business that we acquire may have been subject to many of the same laws and regulations to which our business is subject and possibly to others, including laws and regulations impacting companies that do business with federal, state and local governments. If any business that we acquire has not conducted its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be held accountable or otherwise suffer adverse consequences, such as significant fines or unexpected termination of contracts. Businesses we acquire may have other undisclosed liabilities we do not discover during the acquisition process that could result in liability to us or other unanticipated problems, such as product liability claims. Unexpected liabilities such as these could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with amounts we are able to borrow under our existing lines of credit, will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the defense and security industries. Further, our acquisition strategy will likely require additional equity or debt financings. Such financings could also be required to support our traditional and recently required operating units. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financings to fuel our growth strategy and support our existing businesses. 21 Table of Contents Business Risks As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our government contracts are a significant part of our business. Allowable costs under U.S. government contracts are subject to audit by the U.S. government. Similarly, some U.K. contracts are subject to audit by U.K. regulatory authorities. These audits could result in the disallowance of certain fees and costs, if, the auditing agency asserts, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses were not warranted or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government contracts are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. For example, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and Department of Defense security regulations. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Additionally, we may be subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual costs and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. If we fail to comply with any regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated or we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our government contracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. Economic downturns, reductions or diversions in government funding could have a negative impact on our businesses. Demand for our services has been, and we expect that demand will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions. During economic downturns, the ability of private and government entities to make expenditures on radiological, security and environmental services may decline significantly. We cannot be certain that economic or political conditions will be generally favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting our industry as a whole. In addition, our operations depend, in part, upon government funding, and more recently funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, particularly within the funding levels of the environmental programs at the DOE and DoD. Significant changes in the level of government funding or specifically mandated levels for different programs that are important to our business could have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We and our customers operate in regulated industries that require us and them to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government licenses, permits and approvals. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Our projects are often required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government licenses, permits and approvals. Any of these may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of a license, permit or approval may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including: • failure to provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning or closure; • failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; 22 Table of Contents • local community, political or other opposition; • executive action; and • legislative action. In addition, if new environmental or other legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we or our customers may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Changes in requirements imposed by our environmental or other permits may lead us to incur additional expenses by requiring us to change or improve our waste management technologies and services to achieve and maintain compliance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all potential regulatory changes. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment, and the public perception of radioactive materials can affect our customers and us. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment. The risks associated with radioactive materials and the public perception of those risks can affect our business. Public criticisms of our business resulting from political activism could harm our reputation. Opposition by third parties to particular projects can delay or prohibit the handling, transportation, and disposal of radioactive materials. Adverse public reaction to developments in the use of nuclear power or the disposal of radioactive materials, including any high profile incident involving the discharge of radioactive materials, could directly affect our customers and indirectly affect our business. Adverse public reaction also could lead to increased regulation or outright prohibition, limitations on the activities of our customers, more onerous operating requirements or other conditions that could have a material adverse impact on our customers’ and our business. The elimination or any modification of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could have adverse consequents for our business. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or the AEA, comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials. Section 170 of the AEA, which is known as the Price-Anderson Act, supports the nuclear services industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and DOE contractors for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the NRC and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also companies like us that work under contract or subcontract at a DOE facility under a DOE prime contractor transporting radioactive material to or from a site. The indemnification authority of the NRC and DOE under the Price-Anderson Act was extended through 2025 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. We are subject to liability under environmental laws and regulation. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. Although to date we have been able to obtain liability insurance for the operation of our business, there can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate or that it will be able to be maintained or that all possible claims that may be asserted against us will be covered by insurance. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Construction sites and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal proceedings. Construction sites and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Construction and maintenance projects often require putting our employees in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly-regulated materials. On those projects where we are responsible for site safety, we are obligated to implement procedures to ensure that workers are not injured. In the event we either fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and other may become injured, and we could incur significant financial losses. In addition, the Company could be found liable for failing to comply with government regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Regulations dealing with occupational health and safety are continually evolving. We maintain functional groups within the Company whose primary purpose is to ensure that effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures are implemented throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites. In spite of these efforts, the Company could suffer losses relating to safety issues at our construction and maintenance sites, or fail to comply with all HSE regulations applicable to our business. Our business has inherent operational risks that cannot be adequately covered by insurance or indemnity, and our products and technologies may not qualify for protection under the SAFETY Act. We may face unanticipated risks of legal liability for damages caused by the actual or alleged failure of technologies or services that we supply. Our products may be deployed in response to an emergency or terrorist attack, which may increase our exposure to third-party claims. Many of our technologies are unproven, or have yet to be deployed for actual end-user activities. We may face liabilities related to these products. While we have attempted to secure appropriate insurance coverage at appropriate cost, it is impossible to insure against all risks that inhere in our industry, nor can we assure you that our insurers will pay a particular claim, or that we will be able to maintain coverage at reasonable rates in the future. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess or not otherwise covered by indemnity or insurance could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which increase our costs in the event of a claim. Under the “SAFETY Act” provisions of The Homeland Security Act of 2002, the federal government provides liability limitations and the “government contractor” defense applies if the Department of Homeland Security “designates” or “certifies” technologies or products as “qualified anti-terrorism technologies,” and if certain other conditions apply. We may seek to qualify some or all of our products and technologies under the SAFETY Act’s provisions in order to obtain such liability protections, but there is no guarantee that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will designate or certify our products and technologies as a qualified anti-terrorism technology. Any indemnification that the U.S. government may provide may not cover certain potential claims. Our failure to maintain our safety record could have an adverse effect on our business. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. In addition, many of our government and commercial customers require that we maintain certain specified safety record guidelines to be eligible to bid for contracts with these customers. Furthermore, contract terms may provide for automatic termination in the event that our safety record does not comply with agreed standards during the performance of the contract. A failure to maintain our safety record could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 24 Table of Contents We are engaged in highly competitive businesses and typically must bid against other competitors to obtain major contracts. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which most of our government contracts and some of our commercial contracts are awarded through competitive bidding processes. The extent of such competition varies according to the industries and markets in which our clients operate as well as the geographic areas in which we operate. The degree and type of competition we face is also often influenced by the type of projects for which we compete. Some of our competitors are larger and may possess greater resources than we do, which may give them an advantage when bidding for certain projects. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue for government environmental service contracts, challenging our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share and experience an overall reduction in our profits. Part of our business strategy includes bidding on government contracts as a lead prime contractor in a consortium. In the past, we have operated as a subcontractor or in a minority position on a prime contractor team. In pursuing a lead prime contractor role, we will be competing directly with a number of large national and regional services firms that may possess or develop technologies superior to our technologies and have greater financial, management and marketing resources than we do. Many of these companies also have long-established customer relationships and reputations. We must be successful in the competitive process with our government and commercial customers to replace revenues from projects that are nearing completion and to increase our revenues. Our business and operating results can be adversely affected by the size and timing of a single material contract. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully and quickly. We may lose our competitive position if we fail to innovate and develop new products quickly. Advanced security technologies are evolving rapidly, product life cycles are short and technologies can become obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, sell and support new products and enhancements quickly and cost effectively. Our business will depend on how well we respond to evolving government and industry standards, and changing customer requirements. The lack of standardization in our industry may impede market acceptance of innovative products that we successfully develop. If, for any of these or other reasons, any of our technologies fail to gain acceptance in the market, we will not recoup our development costs, and we will have to attempt to develop new technologies and products. We cannot assure that we can do so successfully, cost effectively or quickly enough. Our products compete in markets that are subject to rapid technological change, and one or more of the technologies underlying our products could be made obsolete by new technology. The market for discovery and analysis tools is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. Rapidly changing technology could make some or all of our product lines obsolete unless we are able to continually improve our existing products and develop new products. Because substantially all of our products are based on our core technology platforms, including X-ray technologies, magnetic resonance technologies, mass spectrometry technologies, vibrational spectroscopy and superconducting magnet technologies, we are particularly vulnerable to any technological advances that would make certain of these techniques obsolete as the basis for analytical systems in any of our markets. To meet the evolving needs of our customers, we must rapidly and continually enhance our current and planned products and services and develop and introduce new products and services. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies which are subject to rapid change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the rapid changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. If we fail to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers, our product sales may decline, and we could experience significant losses. Our CBRNE detection products are subject to a number of risks, including lengthy product development and contract negotiation periods and certain risks inherent in long-term government contracts. Our CBRNE detection products are subject to many risks, including vulnerability to rapid technological change, dependence on mass spectrometry and other technologies and substantial competition. In addition, our CBRNE detection products are generally sold to government agencies under long-term contracts. These contracts generally involve lengthy pre-contract negotiations and product development. We may be required to devote substantial working capital and other resources prior to obtaining product orders. As a result, we may incur substantial costs before we recognize revenue from these products. Moreover, in return for larger, longer-term contracts, our customers for these products often demand more stringent acceptance criteria. These criteria may also cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue from sales of these products. Furthermore, we may not be able to accurately predict in advance our costs to fulfill our obligations under these long-term contracts. If we fail to accurately predict our costs, due to inflation or other factors, we could incur significant losses. Also, the presence or absence of such contracts may cause substantial variation in our results of operations between fiscal periods and, as a result, our results of operations for any given fiscal period may not be predictive of our results for subsequent fiscal periods. The resulting uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Our business qualifies as a small business for significant opportunities which would be negatively impacted if our small business status were to change to other than small. Our small business status provides us with certain competitive advantages including allowing us to compete for certain government set asides for which larger businesses are ineligible. Loss of this status could significantly affect our ability to compete for future contracts. For instance, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Failure to continue to qualify as a small business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results from operations. If our teaming members or partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project or if we fail to coordinate effectively with our partners or subcontractors, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit on the project. We often work jointly with contractual partners or with subcontractors to perform certain projects. Success on these projects depends in part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners or subcontractors fails to perform its contractual obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to compensate for that partner’s failure. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our customer may exercise its right to terminate a joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit. Our collaborative arrangements also involve risks that participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies. These disagreements could result in delays, additional costs and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results: • the seasonality of the spending cycle of our government customers and the spending patterns of our commercial customers; • the number and significance of projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; • the timing of resolutions of change orders, requests for equitable adjustments and other contract adjustments; • decisions by customers to terminate our contracts; • seasonal variations in shipments of radioactive materials; 26 Table of Contents • weather conditions that delay work at project sites; • staff levels and utilization rates; • changes in the prices of services offered by our competitors; and • general economic or political conditions. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could materially adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. Our business depends on the development of markets for detection and surveillance products and solutions. Our products and services are designed to address the markets for detection, surveillance and integrated solutions. Our products and services are targeted to both governmental and private sector markets. These markets and the types of products and services sold in these markets are emerging. Our ability to grow will depend in part on the rate at which markets for our products develop and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands in these markets. In particular, our business depends on our ability to offer a broader range of products and services to meet demand for integrated solutions. In addition, geopolitical developments, terrorist attacks and government mandates may cause sharp fluctuations in the demand for our products. Some of our new products are still undergoing trials, or have too short of a history of operation in the field to establish evidence that they meet long-term customer needs. This may slow the adoption of these products by security conscious customers that demand proof of long term reliability. Some of our products could encounter unanticipated problems in deployment and use, or when attempts are made to integrate them into existing systems and operations. Our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be significantly limited if our new products fail to gain market acceptance. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins. At June 30, 2010, our backlog totaled approximately $376.0 million, of which, $89.1 million is funded. The remaining $286.9 million of unfunded backlog represents contracts signed on a contingent basis that are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In addition, our backlog is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the amount of backlog in-hand at June 30, 2010 will actually be realized as revenues. Gross margins (i.e., contract revenue less direct costs of contracts) can vary considerably between contracts. One aspect of our business that can have a significant effect on the gross margins we realize on our contracts and projects is the amount of pass-through costs incurred. Since pass-through costs typically do not bring significant margins with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding change in our gross margins. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost-reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs; overall safety performance; overall client satisfaction; and/or other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. 27 Table of Contents The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us. One or a few government and commercial customers have in the past, and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, our Safety subsidiary generated approximately 94% of total revenues from prime contracts or subcontracts with the U.S. Government. Safety generated 10% or more of consolidated revenue over the last year from each of the U.S. Department of Energy, Bechtel Jacobs Company, Washington Group International and Clauss Construction. For the year ended June 30, 2010, our Nexus subsidiary generated approximately 75% of total revenues from three customers. Because these customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose significant customers from year to year as their projects with us are completed. Our inability to replace this business with other projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. A percentage of our revenues are earned under contracts that are fixed-price in nature. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-reimbursable contracts. Under fixed price and guaranteed maximum-price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or if circumstances change such as unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials or our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. Errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications can also lead to cost-overruns. Our use of level of effort or percent complete performance accounting could result in reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the level of effort or percent complete performance method of accounting. Generally, the performance accounting practices we use result in recognizing contract revenues and earnings based on output measures, where estimable, or on other measures such as the proportion of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. For some of our long-term contracts, completion is measured on estimated physical completion or units of production. The cumulative effect of revisions to contract revenues and estimated completion costs, including incentive awards, penalties, change orders, claims and anticipated losses, is recorded in the accounting period in which the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual completion costs may vary from estimates, and such variances could be material to our operating results. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. The nature of our business occasionally results in clients, subcontractors and vendors presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims and change orders to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible or for services provided that were either requested by the client or were otherwise required by the nature of the project. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns and experience reduced profits or, in some cases, suffers a loss for that project. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change- orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change-orders can be significant. In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. Litigation in which we could be involved in as a defendant includes, but is not limited to, workers’ compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. However, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs which may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. 28 Table of Contents Adequate bonding is necessary for us to win certain types of new work. We are often required to provide performance bonds or other financial assurances to customers under fixed-price contracts. These surety instruments indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that project. We currently have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately $7.3 million of bonds or surety contracts outstanding. We have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverage, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. The amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverage is generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. We face the risk of incurring liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. We also carry a broad range of insurance coverage that is customary for a company our size. We use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. To the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds; rely on insurance, including captive insurance, or fund trust and escrow accounts. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. We do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future. However, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. These types of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital. We currently have sufficient cash to fund forecasted operations excluding unforeseen circumstances. However, materially adverse events could reduce our cash flows from operations. If our cash flows from operations were negatively affected, we could be forced to reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity, or other additional financings. In these circumstances we instead may elect to incur more indebtedness. If we made such an election, there can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. In these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs. In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. Additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. Any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate. 29 Table of Contents Armed hostilities could constrain our ability to conduct business internationally and could also disrupt our U.S. operations. The current world unrest, or the responses of the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to the economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could have an impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability, our insurance premiums or the ability to purchase insurance and our ability to deliver our products to our customers. The consequences of these risks are unpredictable, and their long-term effect upon us is uncertain. A substantial portion of our revenues depends on sales to the U.S. government and could be affected by changes in federal funding levels. Agencies and departments of the U.S. government account for a substantial portion of our revenues from product sales and substantially all of our revenues from research and development contracts. We and other U.S. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall U.S. defense spending in the last few years and are counting on significant revenues from U.S. government contracts for the foreseeable future. This trend continued with the former President’s budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflected the continued commitment to modernize the Armed Forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. However, U.S. government programs are limited by budgetary constraints and are subject to uncertain future funding levels that could result in the termination of programs. Future defense budgets and appropriations for our programs and contracts may be affected by differing priorities of the new Administration, including budgeting constraints stemming from the economic recovery and stimulus plans. A decline in security-related government spending, or a shift away from our offerings or programs that we address, could hurt our sales, put pressure on our prices and reduce our revenues and margins. We may not realize anticipated benefits from stimulus packages. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. federal government, have enacted various stimulus packages that are intended to increase investment and business activity, and in particular to provide funding for life science research, equipment and facilities. Although we believe there is opportunity for the Company to benefit from these economic stimulus spending programs, including the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, there is no assurance that any of these programs will have a material positive impact on our revenues and profits. The magnitude and timing of any benefits that we might realize from stimulus funding initiatives are uncertain and are subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including government appropriations processes in various countries in which we and our customers do business, governmental determinations regarding the allocation of stimulus funds to the academic institutions, not-for-profit research organizations and businesses that may utilize our products and technologies, the success of our customers in obtaining stimulus grants, and our customers’ decisions to use any stimulus funds they receive to purchase products from us. It is not possible to predict whether or when we will realize benefits from stimulus packages enacted in the U.S. or elsewhere, or what impact, if any, stimulus packages will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. General worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a downturn due to the lack of available credit, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to slow spending on services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue at the level experienced in fiscal 2010, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We derive a majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2010, we generated approximately 84% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from contracts with federal, state and local government agencies. U.S. federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by numerous factors as noted below. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally driven by the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: • Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; • Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures related to the services we provide; • Re-competes of government contracts; • The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments, and the overall level of government expenditures; • Curtailment of the use of government contracting firms; • Delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts; • The increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; • Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; • The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; • Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; • A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and • General economic or political conditions. 31 Table of Contents These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. A delay in the completion of the budget process of the U.S. government could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenues. When the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before its fiscal year-end on September 30, government operations are typically funded by means of a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenues. Our failure to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely affect our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process that is affected by a number of factors. These factors include market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; • Make loans or advances; • Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • Purchase or redeem our stock; • Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our credit agreement; • Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios each fiscal quarter, which we may not be able to achieve. If we do not have access to this credit facility or a comparable credit facility, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Because our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our stock price may be volatile. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results and volatility in our stock price: • expenses incurred in pursuing and closing acquisitions and in follow-up integration efforts; • changes in customers’ budgets and procurement policies and priorities, and funding delays, particularly with respect to government contracts; • new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and bid protest costs; • unanticipated delays or problems in releasing new products and services; and • the amount and timing of our investments in research and development activities and manufacturing improvements. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could materially adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues, with such shortfalls resulting in fluctuations in our operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Penny stocks are stock: • with a price of less than $5.00 per share; • that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; • whose price is not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or • stock in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. 33 Table of Contents Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) “boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired degree. The Company’s management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although the Company does not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. We do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock which may hinder our ability to attract additional capital. The Company has not paid any dividends on its common stock to date. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors expects to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the Company’s business operations and, accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. We have historically had severe working capital shortages, even following significant financing transactions. Although we have raised capital totaling approximately $21,300,000 (net of expenses) since February 2006, we have had working capital shortages in the past. Our consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, indicate that we have a working capital deficit of $6,111,797. Based on the amount of capital we have remaining, we anticipate that we may have working capital shortages in the future unless we are able to substantially increase our revenue or reduce our expenses, thereby generating continuous positive cash flow from operations and (ultimately) operating income. As a result of our recent operating activities, we believe we have sufficient working capital to finance our anticipated operations and throughout our FY2011. We have raised capital and issued securities during the years ended June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and 2006, which has resulted (and will in the future when warrant exercises or conversions occur) result in dilution to our existing stockholders; this was accomplished to provide necessary working capital or obtain assets and services. We will likely issue more securities to raise additional capital or to obtain other services or assets, any of which may result in substantial additional dilution. Since February, 2006, we have raised capital of approximately $21,300,000 to finance our business operations and acquisitions. We have raised this capital by issuing convertible debentures, shares of common stock, convertible preferred stock and common stock warrants to accredited investors and as compensation to investment bankers making introductions to the accredited investors and the exercise of previously issued common stock warrants and stock options. During this same period of time, we issued common stock warrants and shares of common stock to several persons in exchange for their promises to perform investment banking and financial advisory services to us. In many cases, these issuances were below the then-current market prices and can be considered dilutive to our existing stockholders both as a reduction of their percentage ownership in the Company and because of issuances that will be, when warrants are exercised or debentures are converted, at prices below the market. Our Series F Preferred Stock (the “Series F Stock”), our Series H Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series H Stock”) and our Series I Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series I Stock” and collectively with the Series F and H Stock, the “Preferred Stock”) have significant restrictions on our ability to raise any additional capital. If we raise additional working capital, we will likely have to issue additional shares of our common stock and common stock warrants at prices that may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. 34 Table of Contents If demand for any of our products grows suddenly, we may lack the resources to meet demand or we may be required to increase our capital spending significantly. If we are able to develop and market our products successfully, we may experience periods of rapid growth that place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources. Through our research and development efforts we are also attempting to develop additional products and lines of business. Our ability to manage growth effectively, particularly given our increasing scope of operations, will require us to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems, and will require us to develop the management skills of our personnel and to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively manage growth could increase our costs of operations and reduce our margins and liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock is vulnerable to pricing and purchasing actions that are beyond our control and, therefore, persons acquiring or holding our shares may be unable to resell their shares at a profit as a result of this volatility. The trading price of our securities has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, our announcements of new contracts or products by us or our competitors, and other events and factors. The securities markets themselves have from time to time and recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Announcements of delays in our work schedules, new contracts or products by us or our competitors and developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights could have a significant and adverse impact on such market prices. Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries, public concern as to the safety of products containing radioactive compounds, and economic and other external factors all affect the market price of our securities. The conversion ratio of our Series H Stock is subject to adjustment based on the performance of our Safety subsidiary in 2008 and 2009. Although the number of shares issuable upon the conversion of our Series H Stock could increase by 230,000,000 shares (the “Additional Shares”) based upon our Safety subsidiary not achieving an agreed EBITDA target in 2009, the exact additional number of shares issuable upon the conversion of our Series H Stock is still the subject of negotiations. Unless the negotiations end with the agreement of no additional shares issuable upon the conversion of the Series H Stock, the interests of our existing common stockholders will be diluted. Outstanding Preferred Stock, options and warrants may make it difficult for us to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms. As of June 30, 2010, we had Preferred Stock outstanding that is convertible into approximately a minimum of 452,833,333 shares of common stock and approximately a maximum of 682,833,333 shares of common stock, depending on certain negotiations currently underway concerning the Additional Shares. The holders’ rights to convert the Series F Stock, Series H Stock, including the Additional Shares and Series I Stock and related warrants are, however, subject to certain share issuance limitations. In addition, we have outstanding options and warrants for the purchase of up to 83,310,000 shares of common stock and 107,533,333 shares of common stock, respectively, at exercise prices of between $0.03 and $1.00 per share respectively. If all of the outstanding options, Preferred Stock, Additional Shares and common stock warrants were to be converted, they would represent approximately 95% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Future investors will likely recognize that the holders of the options and warrants will only exercise their rights to acquire our common stock when it is to their economic advantage to do so. Therefore, even with lower current market prices for our common stock, the market overhang of such a large number of warrants, options, and convertible preferred stock, including the Additional Shares may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional capital because any new investors will perceive that the securities offer a risk of substantial potential future dilution. 35 Table of Contents If we fail to effect and maintain registration of the common stock issued or issuable pursuant to conversion of our Preferred Stock, the Additional Shares or certain of our outstanding common stock warrants, we may be obligated to pay the investors of those securities liquidated damages. We have an obligation to file upon request of holders of our preferred stock and obtain the effectiveness of a registration statement which would include certain outstanding common stock and common stock underlying outstanding Preferred Stock, the Additional Shares and warrants. Once effective, the prospectus contained within a registration statement can only be used for a period of time as specified by statute without there being a post-effective amendment filed that has become effective under the Securities Act of 1933. If we are unable to meet these filing obligations (or effectiveness obligations), we would be obligated to pay the holder of these securities liquidated damages for each 30 day period after the applicable date as the case may be. The liquidated damages may be paid in cash or shares of our common stock if registered, at the holder’s option. We cannot offer any assurances that we will be able to maintain the required current information contained in a prospectus or to obtain the effectiveness of any registration statement or post-effective amendments that we may file. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 