Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks relating to the Company Operating results from oil and natural gas production may decline. In the near term, our production is almost totally dependent on our working interests in the Giddings Field and our 7.4% royalty interests on early stage EOR production that began during March 2010 in the Delhi Field. The targeted reservoirs in the Giddings Field typically experience flush initial production, followed by steep harmonic decline rates that steadily flatten to much shallower decline rates. Although EOR production from proved reserves at Delhi has and is expected to grow over time, without further 10 Table of Contents development activities in the Giddings Field, Delhi or our other properties, or without acquisitions of producing properties, our net production of oil and natural gas could decline significantly over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The types of resources we focus on have substantial operational risks. Our business plan focuses on the acquisition and development of known resources in partially depleted reservoirs, naturally fractured or low permeability reservoirs, or relatively shallow reservoirs. Shallower reservoirs usually have lower pressure, which translates into fewer natural gas volumes in place; low permeability reservoirs require more wells and substantial stimulation for development of commercial production; naturally fractured reservoirs require penetration of sufficient undepleted fractures to establish commercial production; and depleted reservoirs require successful application of newer technology to unlock incremental reserves. Our CO2-EOR project in the Delhi Field, operated by a subsidiary of Denbury Resources Inc., requires significant amounts of CO2 reserves, development capital and technical expertise, the sources of which have been committed by the Operator. Although initial CO2 injection began at Delhi in November 2009, initial oil production response began in March 2010 and a large part of the capital budget has already been expended, substantial capital remains to be invested to fully develop the EOR project and further increase production. The Operator’s failure to manage these and other technical, strategic, financial and logistical risks may cause ultimate enhanced recoveries from the planned CO 2-EOR project to fall short of our expectations in volume and/or timing. Such occurrences would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. The existing well bores we are re-entering in the Giddings Field were originally drilled as far back as the 1980’s. As such, they contain older casing that could be more subject to failure, or the well files, if available, may be incomplete or incorrect. Such problems can result in the complete loss of a well or a much higher drilling and completion cost. Our proved undeveloped locations in the Giddings Field are direct offsets to current or previously producing wells, and there may be unusually long fractures that will connect our well to another producing or depleted well, thus reducing the potential recovery, increasing our drilling costs, or delaying production due to recovery of drilling fluid lost during drilling into the depleted fractures. Our other projects in Oklahoma and Texas, although believed to have oil and/or gas resources, have yet to exhibit significant proved reserves. Therefore, their economic outcome is uncertain. Our projects generally require that we acquire new leases in and around established fields or other known resources, and drill and complete wells, some of which may be horizontal, as well as negotiate the purchase of existing well bores and production equipment or install our proprietary artificial lift technology that has yet to be universally proven. Leases may not be available and required oil field services may not be obtainable on the desired schedule or at the expected costs. While the projected drilling results may be considered to be low to moderate in risk, there is no assurance as to what productive results may be obtained, if any. Our limited operating history and limited production makes it difficult to predict future results and increases the risk of an investment in our company. We commenced our crude oil and natural gas operations in late 2003 and have a limited operating history, particularly in our currently producing fields. All of our current production is the result of recent operational activities, thus our future production retains substantial variability. Therefore, we face all the risks common to companies in their early stage of development, including uncertainty of funding sources, high initial expenditure levels and uncertain revenue streams, an unproven business model, and difficulties in managing growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in establishing a new business. Any forward-looking statements in this report do not reflect any possible effects on us from the outcome of these types of uncertainty. Other than the significant gain we realized from the Delhi Farmout in fiscal 2006, we incurred significant losses from the inception of our oil and natural gas operations until we established profitability during the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Although we have been profitable since then, we cannot assure future profitability or success. While members of our management team have previously carried out or been involved with acquisition and production activities in the crude oil and natural gas industry while employed by us and other companies, we cannot assure you that our intended acquisition targets and development plans will lead to the successful development of crude oil and natural gas production or additional revenue. The loss of a large single purchaser of our oil and natural gas could reduce the competition of our production. For the year ended June 30, 2012, seven purchasers each accounted for all of our oil and natural gas revenues. The loss of a large single purchaser for our oil and natural gas production could negatively impact the prices we receive. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to continue licensing from third parties the technologies that we use in our business operations. As is customary in the crude oil and natural gas industry, we utilize a variety of widely available technologies in the crude oil and natural gas development and drilling process. We do not have any patents or copyrights for the technology we currently utilize, except for the trademark and issued patent on our GARP™ artificial lift technology that has yet to reach commercial development. We generally license or purchase services from the holders of such technology, or outsource the technology integral to our business from third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on these sources of technology and assumes that such sources will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We cannot be certain whether any third-party patents will require us to utilize or develop alternative technology or to alter our business plan, obtain additional licenses, or cease activities that infringe on third-parties’ intellectual property rights. Our inability to acquire any third-party licenses, or to integrate the related third-party products into our business plan, could result in delays in development unless and until equivalent products can be identified, licensed, and integrated. Existing or future licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party obligations. 12 Table of Contents Our patented GARP™ technology may not result in a commercial service or product. We have developed and field tested our artificial lift technology, GARP™ (Gas Assisted Rod Pump), that we hope to commercialize, though it may not generate material value. Our success in commercializing the technology will depend upon additional positive field tests, acceptance by industry and our ability to defend the technology from competitors through confidentiality and patent protection. Regulatory and accounting requirements may require substantial reductions in reporting proven reserves. We review on a periodic basis the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties under the applicable rules of the various regulatory agencies, including the SEC. Under the full cost method of accounting that we use, the after-tax carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net after-tax cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of this “ceiling” test requires pricing future revenues at the previous 12-month average beginning-of-month price and requires a write down of the carrying value for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded. We may in the future be required to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties when crude oil and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. Whether we will be required to take such a charge will depend in part on the prices for crude oil and natural gas during the previous period and the effect of reserve additions or revisions and capital expenditures during such period. If a write down is required, it would result in a current charge to our earnings but would not impact our current cash flow from operating activities. Our profitability is highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, which have historically been very volatile. Our estimated proved reserves, revenues, profitability, operating cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Historically, these prices have been very volatile and are likely to remain volatile in the future. A significant and extended downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and could result in a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties and the amounts of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that we have not hedged our production with derivative contracts or fixed-price contracts, any significant and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial position. We may be unable to acquire and develop the additional oil and natural gas reserves that are required in order to sustain our business operations. In general, the volumes of production from crude oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Due to decline characteristics of our Giddings wells, our near-term future growth and financial condition are dependent upon our ability to realize production increases expected at Delhi, and /or the development of additional oil and natural gas reserves. We are subject to substantial operating risks that may adversely affect our results of operations. The crude oil and natural gas business involves numerous operating hazards such as well blowouts, mechanical failures, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, hurricanes, flooding, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. We could suffer substantial losses as a result of any of these events. While we carry general liability, control of well, and operator’s extra expense coverage typical in our industry, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. We may not be the operator of some of our wells in the future, and we are not the operator of our high value assets in the Delhi Field. As a result, our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for these wells will be less subject to our control. Operators of these wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. If this occurs, the development of, and production of crude oil and natural gas from, some wells may not occur timely or at all, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect us. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of any of whom could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our future success is dependent upon Robert S. Herlin, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sterling H. McDonald, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Daryl V. Mazzanti, our Vice-President of Operations, for sourcing, evaluating and closing deals, capital raising, and oversight of development and operations. Presently, the Company is not a beneficiary of any key man insurance. 13 Table of Contents The loss of any of our skilled technical personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the services of skilled technical personnel to lease, drill, complete, operate and maintain our crude oil and natural gas fields. We do not have the resources to perform all of these services and therefore we outsource many of our requirements. Additionally, as our production increases, so does our need for such services. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our drilling and maintenance service providers. Accordingly, there is a risk that any of our service providers could discontinue servicing our crude oil and natural gas fields for any reason. Although we believe that we could establish alternative sources for most of our operational and maintenance needs, any delay in locating, establishing relationships, and training our sources could result in production shortages and maintenance problems, with a resulting loss of revenue to us. We also rely on third-party carriers for the transportation and distribution of our production, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may have difficulty managing future growth and the related demands on our resources and may have difficulty in achieving future growth. Although we hope to experience growth through acquisitions and development activity, any such growth may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. Our ability to grow will depend upon a number of factors, including: · our ability to identify and acquire new development or acquisition projects; · our ability to develop existing properties; · our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel; · the results of our development program and acquisition efforts; · the success of our technologies; · hydrocarbon prices; · drilling, completion and equipment prices; · our ability to successfully integrate new properties; · our access to capital; and · the Delhi Field operator’s ability to: deliver sufficient quantities of CO2 from its reserves in the Jackson Dome, secure all of the development capital necessary to fund its and Evolution’s cost interests and to successfully manage technical, strategic and logistical development and operating risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow or manage any such growth. We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies. Our competitors include major integrated crude oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent crude oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than ours. We may not be able to successfully conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Specifically, these larger competitors may be able to pay more for development projects and productive crude oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on hiring contract service providers, obtaining oilfield equipment and acquiring the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in our industry. Our crude oil and natural gas reserves are only estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. Our reserves are only estimates that may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas product prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times, may vary substantially. 14 Table of Contents Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the 12-month average price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. PV-10 does not necessarily correspond to market value. We cannot market the crude oil and natural gas that we produce without the assistance of third parties. The marketability of the crude oil and natural gas that we produce depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third-party services, including crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities necessary to make the products marketable for end use. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in or delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, federal and state regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and transportation could affect our ability to produce and market our crude oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. Our operations require significant amounts of capital and additional financing may be necessary in order for us to continue our exploration activities, including meeting certain drilling obligations under our existing lease obligations. Our cash flow from our reserves may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we may require additional financing in order to carry out our oil and gas acquisitions, exploitation and development activities. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established. If our revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, it will affect our ability to expend the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our current production. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or available to us on favorable terms. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Some of our properties, including our Delhi interests and our acreage in the Mississippi Lime Play in Oklahoma, are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, result in lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. We are, and in the future may become, involved in legal proceedings related to our Delhi interest and, as a result, may incur substantial costs in connection with those proceedings. On August 23, 2012, we, and our wholly owned subsidiary NGS Sub Corp and Robert S. Herlin, our President, were served with a lawsuit filed in federal court by James H. and Kristy S. Jones. The plaintiffs allege primarily that the defendants wrongfully purchased the plaintiffs’ 0.048119 overriding royalty interest in the Delhi Unit in January 2006 by failing to divulge the existence of an alleged previous agreement to develop the Delhi Field for EOR. Although we believe that the claims are without merit and not timely, and intend to vigorously defend against the claims, an adverse resolution of this proceeding could subject us to significant monetary damages and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and re-working existing wells involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure fluctuations or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to obtain or maintain leases on economic terms, where applicable; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or re-working is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, horizontal drilling or CO 2 injection or other injectants do not guarantee that we will find and produce crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells in economic quantities. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include horizontal drilling, hydraulic fracturing or tertiary injectants, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule and costs may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; · the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; · the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; · our financial resources and results; · the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and · the success of our drilling technology and our ability to control these operations. We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; · the price and level of foreign imports; and · overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, crude oil and natural gas prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 87% of our proved 16 Table of Contents reserves at June 30, 2012 are crude oil reserves and 4% are natural gas liquids reserves, we are heavily impacted by movements in crude oil prices, which also influence natural gas liquids prices. Oil field service and materials’ prices may increase, and the availability of such services may be inadequate to meet our needs. Our business plan to develop or redevelop crude oil and natural gas resources requires third party oilfield service vendors and various materials such as steel tubulars, which we do not control. Long lead times and spot shortages may prevent us from, or delay us in, maintaining or increasing the production volumes we expect. In addition, if costs for such services and materials increase, it may render certain or all of our projects uneconomic, as compared to the earlier prices we may have assumed when deciding to redevelop newly purchased or existing properties. Further adverse economic outcomes may result from the long lead times often necessary to execute and complete our redevelop plans. Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages, whether actual or not, caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease or nearby properties. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us, such as diminishing the demand for our products through legislative enactment of proposed new penalties, fines and/or taxes on carbon that could have the effect of raising prices to the end user. For example, currently proposed federal legislation, that, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, includes the following: · Taxes. President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Proposal includes provisions that would, if enacted , make significant changes to U.S. tax laws. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) eliminating the deduction from income for domestic production activities relating to oil and natural-gas exploration and development, and (iii) implementing certain international tax reforms, and · Hydraulic Fracturing. The U.S. Congress, the EPA and various states are currently considering legislation that could adversely affect the use of the hydraulic-fracturing process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. This legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation, permitting and restrictions at the federal level that could adversely affect the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources. We could be adversely affected by a weak domestic or global economy. The current anemic recovery from a recessionary economic environment has limited the recovery in demand for oil and natural gas and, therefore, in commodity prices, particularly natural gas. If the current economic environment continues, lower realized prices may adversely impact our profitability. These factors could negatively impact our operations and may limit our growth. Ownership of our oil, gas and mineral production depends on good title to our property. Good and clear title to our oil, gas and mineral properties is important. Although title reviews will generally be conducted prior to the purchase of most oil, gas and mineral producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not assure that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat our claim which could result in a reduction or elimination of the revenue received by us from such properties. 17 Table of Contents Poor general economic, business, or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. During the last few years, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt, and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic recovery in the United States or abroad remains prolonged, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas, and NGLs, affect our vendors’, suppliers’ and customers’ ability to continue operations, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Risks Associated with Our Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be very volatile. Our common stock is thinly traded and the market price has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, during the year prior to June 30, 2012, our stock price as traded on the NYSE Amex ranged from $6.01 to $10.14. The variance in our stock price makes it extremely difficult to forecast with any certainty the stock price at which an investor may be able to buy or sell shares of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of factors that are out of our control, such as: · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · naked short selling of our common stock and stock price manipulation; · changes or fluctuations in the commodity prices of crude oil and natural gas; · general conditions and trends in the crude oil and natural gas industry; · redemption demands on institutional funds that hold our stock; and · general economic, political and market conditions. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates may be able to control the election of our directors and all other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 6.3 million shares, or approximately 19.6% of our beneficial common stock base. JVL Advisors LLC controls approximately 5.0 million shares or approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these holders could exercise significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market for our common stock is limited and may not provide adequate liquidity. Our common stock is currently thinly traded on the NYSE MKT. In the year prior to June 30, 2012, the actual daily trading volume in our common stock ranged from 20,900 shares of common stock to a high of 390,300 shares of common stock traded, with 194 days exceeding a trading volume of 50,000 shares. On most days, this trading volume means there is limited liquidity in our shares of common stock. Selling our shares is more difficult because smaller quantities of shares are bought and sold and news media coverage about us is limited. These factors result in a limited trading market for our common stock and therefore holders of our stock may be unable to sell shares purchased, should they desire to do so. If securities or industry analyst do not publish research reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Small, relatively unknown companies can achieve visibility in the trading market through research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish. However, to our knowledge, only four independent analysts cover our company. The lack of published reports by independent securities analysts could limit the interest in our common stock and negatively affect our stock price. We do not have any control over the research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If any analyst who does cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 18 Table of Contents The issuance of additional common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders. From time to time, we may have an effective shelf registration that allows us to publicly offer various securities, including common or preferred stock, and at any time we may make private offerings of our securities. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent of such authorization, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as our board may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock now outstanding. We are also authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock , the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by our board of directors, of which, at least 317,319 shares of Series A Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding as of September 12, 2012. Such designation of new series of preferred stock may be made without stockholder approval, and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common stock now outstanding. Preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by: · exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; · receiving preferences over the holders of common stock regarding our surplus funds in the event of our dissolution, liquidation or the payment of dividends to Preferred stockholders; · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; and · discouraging bids for our common stock. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate that we will be paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be dependent upon the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, if any, our financial condition, restrictions contained in our Series A preferred stock and any debt instruments, our anticipated capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors may think are relevant. However, we currently intend for the foreseeable future to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our Series A Preferred Stock is thinly traded and has no stated maturity date. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock were listed for trading on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “EPM.PR.A” on July 5, 2011 and are thinly traded on the NYSE MKT. Since the securities have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares in the secondary market. An active trading market for the shares may not develop or, even if it develops, may not last, in which case the trading price of the shares could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be limited. The market value of our Series A Preferred Stock could be adversely affected by various factors. The trading price of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock may depend on many factors, including: · market liquidity; · prevailing interest rates; · the market for similar securities; · general economic conditions; and · our financial condition, performance and prospects. For example, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock to decrease. We could be prevented from paying dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock. Although dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are cumulative and arrearages will accrue until paid, you will only receive cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock if we have funds legally available for the payment of dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any senior shares or any documents governing our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock when payable. In addition, existing or future debt, credit facility arrangements, contractual covenants or arrangements we enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to pay any cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, in some circumstances, we may pay dividends in stock rather than cash, and our stock price may be depressed at such time. Our Series A Preferred Stock has not been rated and will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt. Our Series A Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In addition, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the Series A Preferred Stock will be subordinated to any existing and future debt and all future capital stock designated as senior to the Series A Preferred Stock. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance potential acquisitions or the development of new properties and the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock do not require us to obtain the approval of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to incurring additional indebtedness. As a result, our existing and future indebtedness may be subject to restrictive covenants or other provisions that may prevent or otherwise limit our ability to make dividend or liquidation payments on our Series A Preferred Stock. Upon our liquidation, our obligations to our creditors would rank senior to our Series A Preferred Stock and would be required to be paid before any payments could be made to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 