Item 1A. Risk Factors I. Financial and Telesat Investment Risk Factors Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by swings in the global financial markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our customers and suppliers. Swings in the global financial markets that include illiquidity, market volatility, changes in interest rates and currency exchange fluctuations can be difficult to predict and negatively affect the ability of certain customers to make payments when due. Such swings may materially and adversely affect us due to the potential insolvency of suppliers and customers, inability of customers to obtain financing for their satellites and transponder leases, decreased customer demand, delays in supplier performance and contract terminations. Our customers may not have access to capital or a willingness to spend capital on our satellites and transponder leases, or their levels of cash liquidity with which to pay for satellites they have ordered from us and transponder leases may be adversely affected. Our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories, production levels or product quality may be adversely affected, which could cause them to raise prices or cease operations. As a result, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These potential effects of swings in the global financial markets are difficult to forecast and mitigate. The SS/L credit agreement is subject to financial and other covenants that must be met for SS/L to utilize the revolving facility. On December 20, 2010, SS/L entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with several banks and other financial institutions. The SS/L credit agreement provides for a $150 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The revolver matures on January 24, 2014. This credit agreement contains certain covenants, both financial and non-financial, which SS/L must be able to meet to draw on the revolver. The covenants include, among other things, a consolidated leverage ratio test, a consolidated interest coverage ratio test and restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, capital expenditures, investments, dividends or stock repurchases, asset sales, mergers and consolidations, liens, changes to the line of business and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. While SS/L has been in compliance with all covenants to date, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to meet its covenant requirements in the future and maintain the availability to use the revolver. SS/L’s liquidity would be materially and adversely affected if it is unable to do so. Our potential indebtedness makes us vulnerable to adverse developments. There are certain restrictions in SS/L’s credit agreement on SS/L incurring indebtedness from sources other than the existing SS/L credit agreement. If new debt is added, such indebtedness could impose additional restrictive covenants. The incurrence of debt under the SS/L credit agreement and any additional significant debt that we may incur would make us vulnerable to, among other things, adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions. 14 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could increase interest costs under SS/L’s credit facility. Borrowings under SS/L’s credit facility are limited to Eurodollar Loans for periods ending in one, two, three or six months or daily loans for which the interest rate is adjusted daily based upon changes in the Prime Rate, Federal Funds Rate or one month Eurodollar Rate. Because of the nature of the borrowing under a revolving credit facility, the borrowing rate adjusts to changes in interest rates over time. For a $150 million credit facility, if it were fully borrowed, a 1% change in interest rates would affect annual interest expense by $1.5 million. Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access additional capital. In recent years, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material adverse effect on SS/L’s ability to borrow money, including under SS/L’s senior secured revolving credit facility, or have access to capital, if needed. Although our lenders have made commitments to make funds available to SS/L in a timely fashion, SS/L’s lenders may be unable or unwilling to lend money. In addition, if we determine that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the future cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. If we were unable to raise funds through debt or equity markets, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Loral Space & Communications Inc., the parent company, is a holding company with no current operations; we are dependent on cash flow from our operating subsidiaries and affiliates to meet our financial obligations. The parent company is a holding company with three primary assets, its equity interest in its wholly-owned subsidiary, SS/L, and its equity interests in its affiliates, Telesat and XTAR. The parent company has no independent operations or operating assets and has ongoing cash requirements. The ability of SS/L, Telesat and XTAR to make payments or distributions to the parent company, whether as dividends or as payments under applicable management agreements or otherwise, will depend on their operating results, including their ability to satisfy their own cash flow requirements and obligations including, without limitation, their debt service obligations. Moreover, covenants contained in the debt agreements of SS/L and Telesat impose limitations on their ability to dividend funds to the parent company. Even if the applicable debt covenants would permit Telesat to pay dividends, the parent company will not have the ability to cause Telesat to do so. See below “While we own 64% of Telesat on an economic basis, we own only 331/3% of its voting stock and therefore do not have the right to elect or appoint a majority of its Board of Directors.” Likewise, any dividend payments by XTAR would require the prior consent of our Spanish partner in the joint venture. The parent company earns a management fee of $5 million a year from Telesat. Telesat’s loan documents permit this management fee from Telesat to be paid to the parent company only in the form of notes, with such fee becoming payable in cash only at such time that Telesat meets certain financial performance criteria set forth in the loan documents. Whether Telesat meets the financial performance criteria to enable payment is dependent upon foreign exchange rates which are constantly fluctuating. It is uncertain at this time whether Telesat will be permitted to pay the management fee in 2011. SS/L made a $50 million dividend payment to the parent company in January 2011 as permitted under SS/L’s credit agreement which SS/L amended and restated in December 2010. SS/L pays the parent company a management fee of $1.5 million in cash each year. The parent company also allocates a portion of its annual overhead expenses to SS/L. The parent company required SS/L to make overhead expense allocation payments to it in 2010. The SS/L credit agreement restricts these overhead expense allocation payments to an amount not to exceed $15 million in any fiscal year and imposes a liquidity restriction that must be met for SS/L to make such payment. The SS/L credit agreement also limits loans by SS/L to the parent company. There can be no assurance that SS/L will be permitted to make expense allocation payments or loans to the parent company in the future. Since January 2008, we have been investing in a Canadian broadband business which has been a use of cash for the Company. On March 1, 2011, Loral entered into agreements to sell this business to Telesat. It is expected that upon closing the transaction, the Company will receive $13 million plus reimbursement of approximately $48 million, representing Loral’s net costs incurred through the closing date. This transaction is expected to close in March 2011. There can be no assurance, however, that this transaction will close. If the transaction does not close, the Company intends to continue to fund the business. 15 Table of Contents While we own 64% of Telesat on an economic basis, we own only 331/3% of its voting stock and therefore do not have the right to elect or appoint a majority of its Board of Directors. While we own 64% of the economic interests of Telesat, we hold only 331/3% of its voting interests. Although the restrictions on foreign ownership of Canadian satellites have recently been removed by the government of Canada, we are still subject to our shareholders agreement with PSP and the articles of incorporation of Telesat Holdco, which do not allow us to own more voting stock of Telesat Holdco than we currently own. Also, under our shareholders agreement, the governance and management of Telesat is vested in its 10-member Board of Directors, comprised of three Loral appointed directors, three PSP appointed directors and four independent directors, two of whom also own Telesat shares with nominal economic value and 30% and 62/3% of the voting interests for Telesat directors, respectively. While we own a greater voting interest in Telesat than any other single stockholder with respect to election of directors and we and PSP, which owns 30% of the voting interests for directors and 662/3% of the voting interests for all other matters, together own a majority of Telesat’s voting power, circumstances may occur where our interests and those of PSP diverge or are in conflict. In that case, PSP, with the agreement of at least three of the four independent directors may, subject to veto rights that we have under Telesat’s shareholders agreement, cause Telesat to take actions contrary to our wishes. These veto rights are, however, limited to certain extraordinary actions — for example, the incurrence of more than $100 million of indebtedness or the purchase of assets at a cost in excess of $100 million. Moreover, our right to block these actions under the shareholders agreement falls away if, subject to certain exceptions, either (i) ownership or control, directly or indirectly by Dr. Mark H. Rachesky (President of MHR Fund Management LLC, or MHR, which, through its affiliated funds is our largest stockholder) of our voting stock falls below certain levels or (ii) there is a change in the composition of a majority of the members of Loral’s board of directors over a consecutive two-year period. Our equity investment in Telesat may be at risk because of Telesat’s leverage. At December 31, 2010, Telesat had outstanding indebtedness of CAD 2.9 billion and additional borrowing capacity of CAD 153 million under its revolving facility, based on a U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate of $1.00/CAD 0.9980. Approximately CAD 2.0 billion of this total borrowing capacity is debt that is secured by substantially all of the assets of Telesat. This indebtedness represents a significant amount of indebtedness for a company the size of Telesat. The agreements governing this indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on Telesat’s activities. These restrictions on Telesat’s ability to operate its business could seriously harm its business by, among other things, limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities, which could in time adversely affect the value of our investment in Telesat. As of December 31, 2010, Telesat had indebtedness of CAD $2.0 billion which bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates were to rise, this would result in higher debt service requirements. To alleviate a portion of this risk, in 2007 Telesat entered into interest rate swaps that converted $600 million of its outstanding floating U.S. dollar debt and CAD 630 million of its outstanding Canadian dollar debt into fixed rate debt for periods extending into 2010 and 2011. In 2009, Telesat extended the maturity of the existing CAD 630 million floating to fixed interest rate swaps to October 2014 and entered into an additional delayed-start floating to fixed CAD 300 million interest rate swap maturing in October 2014. Telesat’s indebtedness includes $1.7 billion that is denominated in U.S. dollars and is unhedged with respect to foreign exchange rates. Unfavorable exchange rate changes could affect Telesat’s ability to repay or refinance this debt. A breach of the covenants contained in any of Telesat’s loan agreements, including without limitation, a failure to maintain the financial ratios required under such agreements, could result in an event of default. If an event of default were to occur, Telesat’s lenders would be able to accelerate repayment of the related indebtedness, and it may also trigger a cross default under other Telesat indebtedness. If Telesat is unable to repay its secured indebtedness when due (whether at the maturity date or upon acceleration as a result of a default), the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which consists of substantially all of the assets of Telesat and its subsidiaries. Telesat’s ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, its debt, will depend largely upon its future operating performance. In the event that Telesat is not able to service its indebtedness, there would be a material adverse effect on the value of our equity investment in Telesat. Telesat also has CAD 141 million of 7% (8.5% following a performance failure) senior preferred stock that may be redeemed by the holders thereof commencing October 31, 2019. This preferred stock enjoys rights of priority over the Telesat equity securities held by us. 16 Table of Contents Certain asset sales by Telesat may trigger material adverse tax consequences for us. Upon completion of the Telesat transaction, we deferred a tax gain of approximately $308 million arising from the contribution by Loral Skynet to Telesat of substantially all of its assets and related liabilities. If Telesat were to sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of such contributed assets in one or more taxable transactions prior to November 1, 2012, we would be required to recognize this deferred gain with retroactive effect to 2007, resulting in additional tax liability to us of approximately $119 million plus interest. Telesat has agreed that, prior to November 1, 2012, without our prior consent, it will not dispose of assets having a value, whether individually or in the aggregate, in excess of $50 million if such disposition would, in our reasonable determination, result in an adverse tax consequence to us. If we were to exercise this veto right and prevent Telesat from consummating such an asset sale, it may, however, adversely affect the value of our investment in Telesat. The Telesat information in this report is based solely on information provided to us by Telesat. Because we do not control Telesat, we do not have the same control and certification processes with respect to the information contained in this report on our satellite services segment that we have for the reporting on our satellite manufacturing segment. We are also not involved in managing Telesat’s day to day operations. Accordingly, the Telesat information contained in this report is based solely on information provided to us by Telesat and has not been separately verified by us. Telesat’s financial results and our U.S. dollar reporting of Telesat’s financial results will be affected by volatility in the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate. Portions of Telesat’s revenue, expenses and debt are denominated in U.S. dollars and changes in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate may have a negative impact on Telesat’s financial results and affect the ability of Telesat to repay or refinance its borrowings. Loral reports its investment in Telesat in U.S. dollars while Telesat reports its financial results in Canadian dollars. Loral reports its investment in Telesat using the equity method of accounting. As a result, Telesat’s results of operations are subject to conversion from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars. Changes in the U.S. dollar relationship to the Canadian dollar affect how our financial results as they relate to Telesat are reported in our consolidated financial statements. There was a significant movement in US$/CAD exchange rates during 2010; the exchange rate moved from US$1.00/CAD 1.0532 at December 31, 2009 to US$1.00/CAD 0.9980 at December 31, 2010. XTAR has not generated sufficient revenues to meet all of its contractual obligations, which are substantial. XTAR’s take-up rate in its service has been slower than anticipated. As a result, it has deferred certain payments owed to us, Hisdesat and Telesat, including payments due under an agreement with Hisdesat to lease certain transponders on the Spainsat satellite. These lease obligations were $24 million in 2010 with increases thereafter to a maximum of $28 million per year through the end of the useful life of the satellite, which is estimated to be in 2022. In addition, XTAR has entered into an agreement with Hisdesat whereby the past due balance on the Spainsat transponders of $32.3 million as of December 31, 2008, together with a deferral of $6.7 million in payments due in 2009, became payable to Hisdesat over 12 years through annual payments of $5 million. Also, XTAR has a convertible loan from Hisdesat in the amount of approximately $17 million, including accrued interest, which is due in June 2011. XTAR’s lease and other obligations to Hisdesat, which will aggregate in excess of $376 million over the life of the satellite, are substantial, especially in light of XTAR’s limited revenues to date. XTAR has agreed that most of its excess cash balance would be applied towards making limited payments on these obligations, as well as payments of other amounts owed to us, Hisdesat and Telesat in respect of services provided by them to XTAR. Unless XTAR is able to generate a substantial increase in its revenues, these obligations will continue to accrue and grow, which may have a material and adverse effect on our equity interest in XTAR. As of December 31, 2010, $3.0 million was due to Loral from XTAR. 17 Table of Contents As part of our business strategy, we may complete acquisitions, undertake restructuring efforts or engage in other strategic transactions. These actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in discussions with third parties regarding, or enter into agreements relating to, acquisitions, restructuring efforts or other strategic transactions in order to manage our product and technology portfolios or further our strategic objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition or alliance candidates and complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex. Any of these activities may result in disruptions to our business and may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits anticipated. II. Segment Risk Factors • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Manufacturing The satellite manufacturing market is highly competitive. SS/L competes with companies such as Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Orbital Sciences in the United States, Thales, Alenia Space and EADS Astrium in Europe and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. in Japan. We also expect that in the future SS/L will compete with emerging low-cost competitors in India, Russia and China. Many of SS/L’s competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, it is possible that other domestic or foreign companies or governments, some with greater experience in the space industry and many with greater financial resources than we possess, could seek to produce satellites that could render SS/L’s satellites less competitively viable. Some of SS/L’s foreign competitors currently benefit from, and others may in the future benefit from, subsidies from or other protective measures by their home countries or government-supported financing of customer purchases and the ability to avoid U.S. export controls. Moreover, as a result of our interest in Telesat, SS/L may experience difficulty in obtaining orders from certain customers engaged in the satellite services business who compete with Telesat. Our financial performance is dependent on SS/L’s ability to generate a sustainable order rate and to continue to increase its backlog. This can be challenging and may fluctuate on an annual and quarterly basis as the number of satellite construction contracts varies and is difficult to predict. Furthermore, the satellite manufacturing industry has suffered from substantial overcapacity worldwide for a number of years, resulting in competitive pressure on pricing and other material contractual terms, such as those allocating risk between the manufacturer and its customers. Buyers, as a result, have had the advantage over suppliers in negotiating prices, terms and conditions, resulting in reduced margins and increased assumption of risk by manufacturers, including SS/L. The cyclicality of SS/L’s end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Many of the end markets SS/L serves have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. The factors leading to, and the severity and length of, a downturn are difficult to predict and it is possible that we will not appropriately anticipate changes in the underlying end markets SS/L serves. It is also difficult to predict whether any increased levels of business activity will continue as a trend into the future. If we fail to anticipate changes in the end markets SS/L serves, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Many of SS/L’s contracts with its customers include performance incentives that subject us to risk. Most of SS/L’s satellite construction contracts permit SS/L’s customers to pay a portion of the purchase price (typically about 10%) for the satellite over the life of the satellite (typically 15 years), subject to the continued performance of the satellite, referred to as orbital receivables. Since these orbital receivables could be affected by future satellite performance, SS/L may not be able to collect all or a portion of these receivables. See “— SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination.” SS/L generally does not insure for these orbital receivables and, in some cases, agrees with our customers not to insure them. 18 Table of Contents SS/L records the present value of orbital receivables as revenue during the construction of the satellite, which is typically two to three years. SS/L generally receives the present value of these orbital receivables if there is a launch failure or a failure caused by customer error. SS/L forfeits some or all of these payments, however, if the loss is caused by satellite failure or as a result of SS/L’s own error. In addition to performance of the satellite, there can be no assurance that a customer will not delay payment of an orbital receivable to, or seek financial relief from, SS/L if such customer has financial difficulties. Nonpayment of an orbital receivable by a customer for performance or other reasons could have an adverse effect on our cash flows. In addition, if SS/L’s customers fall behind or default on payments to SS/L of orbital receivables, our liquidity will be adversely affected. Some of SS/L’s contracts provide for performance incentives to the customer in the form of warranty payback, which means that in the event satellite anomalies develop after launch, SS/L would owe the customer a specified penalty payment. SS/L does not insure these contingent liabilities. We have recorded reserves in our financial statements based on current estimates of SS/L’s warranty liabilities. There is no assurance that our actual liabilities to SS/L’s customers in respect of these warranty liabilities will not be greater than the amount reserved. The satellite manufacturing industry is characterized by technological change, and if SS/L cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative satellite applications that meet customer requirements our sales may suffer. The satellite manufacturing industry is characterized by technological developments necessary to meet changing customer demand for complex and reliable services. SS/L needs to invest in technology to meet its customers’ changing needs. Technological development is expensive and requires long lead time. It is possible that SS/L may not be successful in developing new technology or that the technology it is successful in developing may not meet the needs of its customers or potential new customers. SS/L’s competitors may also develop technology that better meets the needs of SS/L’s customers, which may cause those customers or potential new customers to buy satellites from SS/L’s competitors rather than SS/L. It is possible that SS/L’s satellites will not be successfully developed or manufactured. The satellites SS/L develops and manufactures are technologically advanced and complex and sometimes include novel systems that must function in highly demanding and harsh environments. From time to time, SS/L experiences failures or cost overruns in developing and manufacturing its satellites, delays in delivery and other operational problems. Some of SS/L’s satellite contracts impose monetary penalties on SS/L for delays and for performance difficulties, which penalties could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Certain of SS/L’s on-orbit satellites have known performance issues. Component failure is not uncommon in complex satellites. Costs resulting from component failure may result in warranty expenses, loss of orbital receivables and/or additional loss of revenues due to the postponement or cancellation of subsequently scheduled operations or satellite deliveries and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity from satellite failures may also impair SS/L’s ability to win new contracts from existing and new customers. Some satellites SS/L has built have experienced minor losses of power from their solar arrays. Thirty-one of SS/L’s satellites currently on-orbit have experienced partial losses of power from their solar arrays. In the event of additional power loss, the extent of the performance degradation, if any, will depend on numerous factors, including the amount of the additional power loss, the level of redundancy built into the affected satellite’s design, when in the life of the affected satellite the loss occurred, how many transponders are then in service and how they are being used. A partial or complete loss of a satellite could result in an incurrence of warranty payments by, or a loss of orbital receivables to, SS/L. 19 Table of Contents SS/L’s major customers account for a sizable portion of SS/L’s revenues, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a decline in revenues. A sizable portion of SS/L’s revenue is derived from a limited number of customers and we expect that SS/L’s results of operations in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on SS/L’s ability to continue to service such customers. It is possible that any of SS/L’s major customers could cease entering into satellite construction contracts with SS/L or could significantly reduce or delay the number of satellites that it orders and purchases from SS/L. The loss of, or a reduction in, orders from any major customer could cause a decline in our overall revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SS/L’s future operating results are dependent on the growth in the businesses of SS/L’s customers and on SS/L’s ability to sell to new customers. SS/L’s growth is dependent on the growth in the sales of the services of SS/L’s customers as well as the development by SS/L’s customers of new services. If we fail to anticipate changes in the businesses of SS/L’s customers and their changing needs, or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. The markets SS/L serves may not grow in the future and we may not be able to maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. A decline in demand in one or several end-user markets of SS/L’s customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for SS/L’s satellites and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination. SS/L’s major contracts are firm fixed-price contracts under which work performed and products shipped are paid for at a fixed-price without adjustment for actual costs incurred. While cost savings under these fixed-price contracts result in gains to SS/L, cost increases result in reduction of profits or increase of losses, borne solely by SS/L. Under such contracts, SS/L may receive progress payments, or SS/L may receive partial payments upon the attainment of certain program milestones. If performance on these milestones is delayed, SS/L’s receipt of the corresponding payments will also be delayed. As the prime contractor, SS/L is generally liable to its customers for schedule delays and other non-performance by its suppliers, which may be largely outside of SS/L’s control. Non-performance may increase costs and subject SS/L to damage claims from customers and termination of the contract for default. SS/L’s contracts contain detailed and complex technical specifications to which the satellite must be built. It is very common that satellites built by SS/L do not conform in every single aspect to, and contain a small number of minor deviations from, the technical specifications. In the case of more significant deviations, however, SS/L may incur increased costs to bring the satellite within or close to the contractual specifications or a customer may exercise its contractual right to terminate the contract for default. In some cases, such as when the actual weight of the satellite exceeds the specified weight, SS/L may incur a predetermined penalty with respect to the deviation. SS/L’s failure to deliver a satellite to its customer by the specified delivery date, which may result from factors beyond SS/L’s control, such as delayed performance or non-performance by the subcontractors or failure to obtain necessary governmental licenses for delivery, would also be harmful to us unless mitigated by applicable contract terms, such as excusable delay. As a general matter, SS/L’s failure to deliver beyond any contractually provided grace period would result in incurrence of liquidated damages, which may be substantial, and if SS/L is still unable to deliver the satellite upon the end of the liquidated damages period, the customer will generally have the right to terminate the contract for default. If a contract is terminated for default, SS/L would be liable for a refund of customer payments made to date, and could also have additional liability for excess re-procurement costs and other damages incurred by SS/L’s customer, although SS/L would own the satellite under construction and attempt to recoup any losses through resale to another customer. A contract termination for default could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, many of SS/L’s contracts may be terminated for convenience by the customer. In the event of such a termination, SS/L is normally entitled to recover the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work in process and an allowance for profit or an adjustment for loss, depending on whether completion of the project would have resulted in a profit or loss; however, there is no guarantee that any such recovery will be obtained. 20 Table of Contents A dispute could arise relating to a satellite in construction. SS/L and one of its customers, EchoStar Corporation (“EchoStar”), have agreed to suspend final construction of a satellite pending, among other things, further analysis relating to efforts to meet the satellite performance criteria or confirmation that alternative performance criteria would be acceptable. In May 2010, SS/L provided EchoStar, at its request, with a proposal to complete construction and prepare the satellite for launch under the current specifications. In August 2010, SS/L provided EchoStar, at its request, additional proposal information. There can be no assurance that a dispute will not arise with EchoStar as to whether the satellite meets its technical performance specifications or in the situation where a dispute does arise that SS/L would prevail. Failure to resolve such dispute, or future disputes with this or other customers, in a timely and cost-efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Certain of SS/L’s customers are highly leveraged and may not fulfill their contractual payment obligations with SS/L. SS/L has certain commercial customers that are either highly leveraged or in the development stage that are not fully funded. There is a risk that these customers will be unable to meet their payment obligations to SS/L under their satellite construction contracts. This risk is increased due to current economic conditions. For example, one of SS/L’s customers, TerreStar Networks Inc. (“TerreStar”), filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on October 19, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, SS/L had $19 million of past due receivables from TerreStar related to an in-orbit SS/L built satellite and other related ground system deliverables and $16 million of past due receivables from TerreStar related to a second satellite under construction. SS/L had previously exercised its contractual right to stop work on the satellite under construction as a result of TerreStar’s payment default. The in-orbit satellite long-term orbital receivable balance, net of fair value adjustment, reflected on the balance sheet at December 31, 2010 is $15 million. The long term orbital receivable balance reflected on the balance sheet for the satellite under construction is $13 million. In addition, there are approximately $3 million of costs that have been committed to and will be incurred in the future, substantially relating to the ground system deliverables. In February 2011, TerreStar withdrew its proposed plan of reorganization and has indicated that it will explore an alternative plan of reorganization or a sale of its assets. Prior to withdrawing its plan, TerreStar had indicated that it intended to assume its contract for the satellite under construction. In March 2011, TerreStar filed a motion to authorize it to reject its contracts for the in-orbit satellite and related ground system deliverables. If TerreStar were to reject its contracts for the in-orbit satellite and related ground system deliverables, and assuming that SS/L received no recovery on its claim as a creditor with respect to these contracts, SS/L believes that it would incur a loss of approximately $27 million, SS/L’s cash flow in the short term would be reduced by $20 million and SS/L’s cash flow over the approximate 15-year life of the satellite would be reduced by an additional $18 million of long term orbital receivables plus interest. Moreover, most of SS/L’s satellite contracts include orbital receivables, and certain of SS/L’s satellite contracts may require SS/L to provide vendor financing to its customers, or a combination of these contractual terms. To the extent that SS/L’s contracts contain orbital receivables provisions or SS/L provides vendor financing to its customers, our financial exposure is further increased. In some cases, these arrangements are provided to (i) customers that are new companies, (ii) companies in the early stages of building new businesses or (iii) highly leveraged companies, in some cases, with near-term debt maturities. These companies or their businesses may not be successful and, accordingly, they may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations under their contracts with SS/L. There can be no assurance that SS/L will have sufficient funds to meet its cash requirements in the future. There can be no assurance that SS/L will have sufficient funds to meet its cash requirements in future years beyond 2010. SS/L has high fixed costs relating primarily to labor and overhead. Based on SS/L’s current cost structure, we estimate that SS/L covers its fixed costs, including depreciation and amortization, with an average of four to five satellite awards a year depending on the size, power, pricing and complexity of the satellite. If SS/L’s satellite awards fall below four to five awards per year, SS/L would be required to phase in a reduction of costs to accommodate this lower level of activity. The timing of any reduced demand for satellites, if it were to occur, is difficult to predict. It is, therefore, difficult to anticipate the need to reduce costs to match any such slowdown in 21 Table of Contents business, especially when SS/L has significant backlog business to perform. A delay in matching the timing of a reduction in business with a reduction in expenditures could adversely affect the liquidity of SS/L and us. If SS/L does not have sufficient funds, it will be required to borrow under its credit agreement or will have to obtain new financing, either in the form of debt or equity, to increase cash availability. In light of current market conditions, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on the ability of SS/L and us to manage unforeseen cash requirements, to meet contingencies and to fund growth opportunities. Many of SS/L’s costs are fixed and SS/L may not be able to cut costs sufficiently to maintain profitability in the event of a downturn in its business. SS/L is a large-scale systems integrator, requiring a large staff of highly skilled and specialized workers, as well as specialized manufacturing and test facilities in order to perform under its satellite construction contracts. In order to maintain its ability to compete as one of the prime contractors for technologically advanced space satellites, SS/L must continuously retain the services of a core group of specialists in a wide variety of disciplines for each phase of the design, development, manufacture and testing of its products. This reduces SS/L’s flexibility to reduce workforce costs in the event of a slowdown or downturn in SS/L’s business. In addition, the manufacturing and test facilities that SS/L owns or leases under long-term agreements are fixed costs that cannot be adjusted quickly to account for significant variance in production requirements or economic conditions. The availability of facility space and qualified personnel may affect SS/L’s ability to perform its contracts in a timely and efficient manner. SS/L has won a number of satellite construction contracts over the last few years and, as a result, its backlog has expanded significantly. In order to complete construction of all the satellites in backlog and to enable future growth, SS/L has modified and expanded its manufacturing facilities to accommodate as many as nine to 13 satellite construction awards per year, depending on the complexity and timing of the specific satellites, and SS/L can accommodate the integration and testing of 13 to 14 satellites at any given time in its Palo Alto facility. However, due to scheduling requirements, SS/L relies on outside suppliers for certain critical production and testing activities, such as thermal vacuum testing. It is possible that such outside suppliers will not be able to accommodate SS/L’s scheduling requirements, which may cause SS/L to incur additional costs or fail to meet contractual delivery deadlines. Further, SS/L may not be able to hire or retain enough employees with the requisite skills and training and, accordingly, SS/L may not be able to perform its contracts as efficiently as planned or grow its business to the planned level. SS/L’s ability to obtain certain satellite construction contracts depends, in part, on its ability to provide the customer with financing. In the past, SS/L has provided partial financing to customers to enable it to win certain satellite construction contracts. The financing has typically been in the form of orbital receivables, vendor financing and/or loans by SS/L and direct investments by Loral in the customer or the satellite. SS/L’s credit agreement limits its ability to provide customers with financing. If SS/L is unable to provide financing to a customer, it could lose the satellite construction contract to a competitor that could provide financing. See above “— The satellite manufacturing market is highly competitive”. SS/L relies on certain key suppliers whose failure or delayed performance could adversely affect us. To build satellites, SS/L relies on suppliers, some of which are competitors, to provide SS/L with certain component parts. The number of suppliers capable of providing these components is limited, and, in some cases, the supplier is a sole source, based upon the unique nature of the product or the customer requirement to procure components with proven flight heritage. These suppliers are not all large, well-capitalized companies, and to the extent they experience financial difficulties, their ability to timely deliver components that satisfy a customer’s contract requirements could be impaired. In the past, SS/L’s performance under its construction contracts with its customers has been adversely affected because of a supplier’s failure or delayed performance. As discussed above under “— SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination,” a failure by SS/L to meet its contractual delivery requirements could give rise to liquidated damage payments by SS/L or could cause a customer to terminate its construction contract with SS/L for default. 22 Table of Contents SS/L faces risks in conducting business internationally and is subject to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 44% of SS/L’s revenues were generated from customers outside of the United States. SS/L could be harmed financially and operationally by changes in foreign regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on its services or by political and economic instability in the countries in which it conducts business. Almost all of SS/L’s contracts with foreign customers require payment in U.S. dollars, and customers in developing countries could have difficulty obtaining U.S. dollars to pay SS/L due to currency exchange controls and other factors. Also, if SS/L needs to pursue legal remedies against its foreign business partners or customers, SS/L may have to sue them abroad where it could be difficult for SS/L to enforce its rights. SS/L sells certain of its communications satellites and other products to non-U.S. customers. SS/L also procures certain key product components from non-U.S. vendors. International contracts are subject to numerous risks that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, including: • political and economic instability in foreign markets; • restrictive trade policies of the U.S. government and foreign governments; • inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments; • imposition of product tariffs and burdens; • the cost of complying with a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control; • the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants; • inability to obtain required U.S. or foreign country export licenses; and • foreign currency exposure. See “— SS/L is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.” SS/L relies on patents, and infringement by SS/L of third-party patents would increase its costs, and third parties may challenge its patents. SS/L relies, in part, on patents and industry expertise to develop and maintain its competitive position. At December 31, 2010, SS/L held 167 patents in the United States and had applications for 13 patents pending in the United States. SS/L’s patents include those relating to communications, station keeping, power control systems, antennae, filters and oscillators, phased arrays and thermal control as well as assembly and inspection technology. SS/L’s patents that are currently in force expire between 2011 and 2029. There is a risk that competitors could challenge or infringe SS/L’s patents. It is also possible that SS/L will infringe current or future third-party patents or third-party trade secrets. In the event of infringement, SS/L could be required to pay royalties to obtain a license from the patent holder or refund money to customers for components that are not useable or redesign its products to avoid infringement, all of which would increase SS/L’s costs. SS/L could also be subject to injunctions prohibiting it from using components. SS/L may also be required under the terms of its customer contracts to indemnify its customers for damages relating to infringements. For example, one third party has asserted that SS/L is infringing certain pending patent applications. To the extent patents are issued to such third party in a form that covers the technology SS/L uses to manufacture satellites, and such patents are found to be valid, SS/L could be enjoined from using such technology and may be required to either take a license under or design around such patents. 23 Table of Contents SS/L’s operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. SS/L’s business is subject to numerous inherent risks, particularly unplanned events such as inclement weather, explosions, fires, earthquakes, terrorist acts, other accidents, equipment failures and transportation interruptions. While SS/L’s insurance coverage could offset losses relating to some of these types of events, to the extent any such losses are not covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SS/L relies on its information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of SS/L’s business and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect SS/L’s business. SS/L’s information technology, or IT, systems are an integral part of its business. SS/L depends on its IT systems and software applications it has developed internally for scheduling, sales order entry, purchasing, materials management, accounting and production functions. Some of SS/L’s systems are not fully redundant, and SS/L’s disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. A serious disruption to SS/L’s IT systems could significantly limit SS/L’s ability to manage and operate its business efficiently, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SS/L is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. SS/L is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in its satellite sales contracts, anticipated satellite sales and vendor purchase commitments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. SS/L’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the euro and the Japanese yen. In addition, SS/L purchases certain supplies and materials from suppliers located outside of the U.S. Failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 44% of SS/L’s revenues were generated from customers outside of the United States. Almost all of SS/L’s contracts with foreign customers require payment in U.S. dollars. Customers in developing countries could have difficulty obtaining U.S. dollars to pay SS/L due to currency exchange controls and other factors. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay in U.S. dollars. Certain European customers, or potential customers, conduct their business in euros and may choose to contract with SS/L in euros, for which SS/L will need to hedge its foreign exchange exposure. Also, devaluation of the euro versus the U.S. dollar may hurt SS/L’s competitive position with respect to its European-based competitors. SS/L is subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws, which may result in delays, lost business and additional costs, and any changes in any of these laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The satellite manufacturing industry is highly regulated due to the sensitive nature of satellite technology. It is possible that the laws and regulations governing SS/L’s business and operations will change in the future. There may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if SS/L is required to alter its business operations to comply with such changes in law or if SS/L’s ability to sell its products and services on a global basis is reduced or restricted due to increased U.S. or foreign government regulation. SS/L is required by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the U.S. State Department, to obtain licenses and enter into technical assistance agreements to export satellites and related equipment and to disclose technical data or provide defense services to foreign persons. In addition, if a satellite project involves countries, individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. economic sanctions, which we refer to here as Sanctions Targets, or is intended to provide services to Sanctions Targets, SS/L’s participation in the project may be prohibited altogether or licenses or other approvals from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, may be required. The delayed receipt of or the failure to obtain the necessary U.S. Government licenses, approvals and agreements may prohibit entry into or interrupt the completion of a satellite contract by SS/L and could lead to a customer’s termination of a contract for default, monetary penalties and/or the loss of incentive payments. SS/L has in the past failed to obtain the export licenses necessary to deliver satellites to its Chinese customers. 24 Table of Contents Some of SS/L’s customers and potential customers, along with insurance underwriters and brokers, have asserted that U.S. export control laws and regulations governing disclosures to foreign persons excessively restrict their access to information about the satellite during construction and on-orbit. OFAC sanctions and requirements may also limit certain business opportunities or delay or restrict SS/L’s ability to contract with potential foreign customers or operators. To the extent that SS/L’s non-U.S. competitors are not subject to these export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations, they may enjoy a competitive advantage with foreign customers, and it could become increasingly difficult for the U.S. satellite manufacturing industry, including SS/L, to recapture this lost market share. Customers concerned over the possibility that the U.S. government may deny the export license necessary for SS/L to deliver their purchased satellite to them, or the restrictions or delays imposed by the U.S. government licensing requirements, even where an export license is granted, may elect to choose a purportedly “ITAR-free” satellite offered by one of SS/L’s European competitors over SS/L’s satellite. SS/L is further disadvantaged by the fact that a purportedly “ITAR-free” satellite may be launched less expensively in China on the Chinese Long March rocket, a launch vehicle that, because of ITAR restrictions, is not available to SS/L or other suppliers subject to ITAR restrictions. SS/L uses estimates in accounting for many contracts. Changes in these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Contract accounting requires significant judgments relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for scheduling and technical issues. Due to the nature of many of SS/L’s contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, significant assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives, penalties and award fees related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for SS/L to assess anticipated performance. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances or estimates were to change or ultimately be different from SS/L’s expectations. Changes or inaccuracies in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial results. Industry consolidation in the satellite services industry may adversely affect SS/L. Industry consolidation has resulted in the formation of satellite operators with greater satellite resources and increased coverage. This consolidation and any additional consolidation in the future may reduce demand for new satellite construction as operators may need fewer satellites in orbit to provide back-up coverage or to rationalize the amount of capacity available in certain geographic regions. It may also result in concentrating additional bargaining power in the hands of large customers, which could increase pressure on pricing, risk allocation and other contractual terms. We do not control satellite procurement decisions at Telesat. Although we hold 64% of the economic interests in Telesat, we do not control satellite procurement decisions at Telesat, and it is possible that Telesat will not purchase additional satellites from SS/L. Moreover, any decision relating to the enforcement of existing or future satellite contracts between Telesat and SS/L will be made on arms-length terms and, in certain cases, subject to approval by the disinterested directors of Telesat. Moreover, as a result of our interest in Telesat, SS/L may experience difficulty in obtaining orders from certain customers engaged in the satellite services business who compete with Telesat. In addition, Telesat’s board of directors and shareholders have authorized a process to explore an initial public offering or other strategic alternatives. As a result of such process, it is possible that SS/L could cease to be an affiliate of Telesat, which could adversely affect SS/L’s ability to obtain future satellite construction orders from Telesat. 25 Table of Contents Federal government contracts may be terminated by the federal government at any time prior to their completion and contain other unfavorable provisions, which could lead to unexpected loss of sales and reduction in backlog. SS/L contracts with the federal government. Under the terms of federal government contracts, the federal government may unilaterally: • terminate or modify existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts through partial termination; • delay the payment of SS/L’s invoices by government payment offices; • audit SS/L’s contract-related costs; and • suspend SS/L from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. The federal government may terminate or modify any of its contracts with SS/L either for its convenience, or if SS/L defaults by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of SS/L’s default could expose SS/L to liability and have a material adverse effect on SS/L’s ability to compete for future contracts and subcontracts. If the federal government terminates and/or materially modifies any of SS/L’s contracts or if any applicable options are not exercised, SS/L’s failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and could adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SS/L’s business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or other actions, including suspension or debarment, by the federal government. As a federal government contractor, SS/L must comply with and is affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how SS/L does business with the federal government and its prime government contractors and subcontractors, and, in some instances, impose added costs on SS/L’s business. Federal government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review each contractor’s contract performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Such agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed. • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Services A substantial amount of Telesat revenues are derived from only a few of its customers. A loss of one or more of these major customers, or a material adverse change in any such customer’s business or financial condition, could materially reduce Telesat future revenues and contracted backlog. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Telesat’s top five customers together accounted for approximately 51% of its revenues. At December 31, 2010, Telesat’s top five backlog customers together accounted for approximately 89% of its backlog. If any of Telesat’s major customers chose to not renew their contracts at the expiration of the existing terms or sought to negotiate concessions, particularly on price, that could have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition. Telesat’s customers could experience a downturn in their business or find themselves in financial difficulties, which could result in their ceasing or reducing their use of Telesat’s services (or becoming unable to pay for services they had contracted to buy). In addition, the industries in which some of Telesat’s customers operate are undergoing significant consolidation, and Telesat’s customers may be acquired by other companies, including by its competitors. Such acquisitions could adversely affect Telesat’s ability to sell services to such customers and to any end-users whom they serve. 26 Table of Contents Additionally, Telesat’s largest customer, Bell TV, is part of BCE. Since the Telesat transaction, Telesat is no longer a subsidiary of BCE or an affiliate of Bell TV and may have lost certain competitive advantages with respect to Bell TV. There is no guarantee that Bell TV will continue using Telesat’s services after the expiration of its current contracts. Launch delays or failures may result in delays in operations. Delays in launching satellites are not uncommon and result from construction delays, the unavailability of appropriate launch vehicles, launch failures and other factors. Delays in satellite launches would result in delays in Telesat’s revenues, could affect plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its useful life, could result in the expiration or cancellation of launch insurance, could result in the loss of orbital slot rights, termination of contracts by affected customers and a reduction in contracted backlog. Upon termination of a customer contract, Telesat would be required to refund any prepayments made to it by its terminating customer, which in the case of a major customer, may be substantial. Satellite launches are risky, and some launch attempts have ended in complete or partial failure. A significant delay or launch failure of a Telesat satellite may have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results and condition. For example, the March 15, 2008 failure of a Proton rocket to lift its satellite payload to the appropriate orbit caused a delay in the planned launch of the Nimiq 4 satellite, originally scheduled to be launched on a Proton rocket in mid-2008. Although Nimiq 4 successfully launched in September 2008, the launch delay caused a delay in receipt of revenues from that satellite in 2008 and deferred the backlog run-off previously anticipated for Nimiq 4 in 2008. The launch of Telstar 14R/Estrela do Sul, which is planned to be launched in mid-2011, may likewise also be delayed if the launch vehicle on which it is scheduled to be launched suffers a failure prior to the launch of Telstar 14R. After launch, satellites remain vulnerable to in-orbit failures which may result in reduced revenues and profits and other financial consequences. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and therefore are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. In-orbit damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its expected life results from various causes, some random, including component failure, degradation of solar panels, loss of power or fuel, inability to maintain the satellite’s position, solar and other astronomical events and space debris. Some of Telesat’s satellites have had malfunctions and other anomalies, and in certain cases are currently operating using back-up components because of the failure of their primary components. If the back-up components fail, however, and Telesat is unable to restore capability through redundancy or other means, these satellites could lose capacity or be total losses. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies or other failure could cause Telesat’s revenues, cash flows and backlog to decline materially, could require it to recognize an impairment loss and could require Telesat to expedite its satellite replacement program, affecting its profitability and increasing its financing needs. It could also require Telesat to repay prepayments made by customers of the affected satellite. It could also result in a customer terminating its contract for service on the affected satellite. If the affected satellite involves one of Telesat’s major customers, there could be a material adverse effect on Telesat’s operations, prospects, results and financial condition, which in turn would adversely affect us. It may be difficult to obtain full insurance coverage for satellites that have, or are part of a family of satellites that has, experienced problems in the past; moreover, not all satellite-related losses will be covered by insurance. Telesat’s satellite insurance does not protect it against all satellite-related losses. For example, satellite insurance will not protect it against business interruption, lost revenues or delay of revenues. Telesat also does not have in-orbit insurance coverage for all of the satellites in its fleet. Telesat’s existing launch and in-orbit insurance policies include, and future policies are expected to include, specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage arising from acts of war and other exclusions then customary in the industry. In addition, they typically exclude coverage for health-related problems affecting satellites that are known at the time the policy is written. To the extent Telesat experiences a launch or in-orbit failure that is not fully insured, or for which insurance proceeds are delayed or disputed, it may not have sufficient resources to replace the affected satellite. 27 Table of Contents Launch and in-orbit policies on satellites may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of a satellite may have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition, which may not be adequately mitigated by insurance coverage. Telesat competes for market share, customers and orbital slots. A trend toward consolidation of major FSS providers has resulted in the creation of global competitors which are substantially larger than Telesat in terms of both the number of satellites they have in orbit as well as in terms of their revenues. Due to their larger sizes, these operators are able to take advantage of greater economies of scale, may be more attractive to customers, and may have greater flexibility to restore service to their customers in the event of a partial or total satellite failure. Telesat also faces competition from regional operators, which may enjoy competitive advantages in their local markets. Telesat’s affiliation with us may also adversely affect its ability to compete for certain contracts, especially in its consulting services business. In addition, Telesat competes for local regulatory approval in places where more than one provider may want to operate and for scarce frequency assignments and a limited supply of orbital locations. Telesat’s business is also subject to competition from ground based forms of communications technology. For many point-to-point and other services, the offerings provided by terrestrial companies can be more competitive than the services offered via satellite. New technology could also render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in other ways. Telesat’s failure to compete effectively would result in, among other things, a loss of revenue and a decline in profitability, and a decrease in the value of its business. Changes in the Canadian competitive environment could adversely affect Telesat. A substantial portion of Telesat’s business is expected to continue in the Canadian domestic market. This market is characterized by increasing competition and rapid technological development among satellite providers. The Canadian regulatory framework has always required the use of Canadian-licensed satellites for the delivery of direct-to-home (“DTH”) programming in Canada. It is possible that this framework could change and allow non-Canadian satellite operators to compete for future business from DTH customers, which constitute some of Telesat’s major customers. Industry Canada, the Canadian telecommunications authority, has authorized Telesat to operate at a number of orbital locations. Industry Canada has also awarded a number of licenses to a new Canadian satellite provider, Ciel Satellite Group, including licenses to spectrum suitable for providing a variety of satellite services to Canadian customers. Increased competition in Canada may adversely affect Telesat’s access rights to certain Canadian orbital locations, which in turn could adversely affect Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition. Telesat operates in a highly regulated industry and government regulations may adversely affect its business. Telesat is subject to the laws of Canada and the United States and the telecommunications regulatory authorities of the Canadian government, primarily the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission, or CRTC, and Industry Canada, as well as those of the United States government, primarily the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, the International Telecommunications Union, or the ITU, the European Union, Brazil and Isle of Man. It is also subject to the laws and regulations of other countries to, from or within which it provides services. Regulatory authorities can modify, withdraw or impose charges or conditions upon, or deny or delay action on applications for, the licenses Telesat needs for its business, including its access rights to orbital positions. Countries or regulatory authorities may adopt new laws, policies or regulations, change their interpretation of existing laws, policies or regulations or otherwise take actions in a manner that could adversely affect Telesat’s operations or revenues. 28 Table of Contents To prevent frequency interference, the regulatory process requires potentially lengthy and costly negotiations with third parties who operate or intend to operate satellites at or near the locations of Telesat satellites. These negotiations have resulted in financial concessions in the past and there can be no assurance that such concessions may not be required in the future. The failure to reach an appropriate arrangement with a third party having priority rights at or near one of Telesat’s orbital slots may result in substantial restrictions on the use and operation of its satellite at that location. For example, the Russian Satellite Communications Company (“RSCC”) has announced that it has signed contracts for the development of a satellite which it intends to launch and operate at 14° WL, adjacent to the location of Telesat’s Telstar 12 satellite at 15° WL. RSCC’s ITU rights over certain frequencies at 14° WL have priority over Telesat’s use of these same frequencies in its operation of Telstar 12. Telesat is currently in frequency coordination discussions with RSCC. If Telesat fails to reach an appropriate arrangement with RSCC, it may result in restrictions on the use and operation of Telstar 12 which could materially restrict Telesat’s ability to earn revenue from Telstar 12 and any replacement satellite or may make a replacement satellite not economically viable. In addition, while the ITU rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate with it, there can be no assurance that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the operation of Telesat’s satellites. Failure to successfully coordinate Telesat’s satellites’ frequencies or to resolve other required regulatory approvals could have an adverse effect on its financial condition, as well as on the value of its business, which would in turn adversely affect us. Telesat’s ability to replace one of its satellites is subject to additional risk and cannot be assured. In addition to the risks with respect to Telesat’s ability to renew its licenses to orbital locations, there is also a specific risk with respect to Telesat being able to replace Telstar 18. Telesat operates Telstar 18 pursuant to agreements with APT Satellite Company Limited (“APT”) that has a license to use the orbital location controlled by the government of Tonga. Although Telesat’s agreement with APT provides Telesat with renewal rights with respect to a replacement satellite at this orbital location, there can be no assurance that renewal rights will be granted. Should Telesat be unsuccessful in obtaining renewal rights for the orbital location because of the control of the orbital location exercised by Tonga, or should Telesat otherwise fail to enter into agreements with APT with respect to such replacement satellite, all revenue obtained from Telstar 18 would cease and such loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations and financial condition, which would in turn adversely affect us. III. Other Risks Third parties have significant rights with respect to our affiliates. Third parties have significant rights with respect to, and we do not have control over management of, our affiliates. For example, Hisdesat enjoys substantial approval rights in regard to XTAR, our X-band joint venture. Also, while we own 64% of the participating shares of Telesat, we own only 331/3% of the voting power. The rights of these third parties and fiduciary duties under applicable law could result in others acting or failing to act in ways that are not in our best interest. While these entities are or have been customers of SS/L, due to these third party rights and the fiduciary duties of the boards of these entities, there can be no assurance that these entities will continue to be customers of SS/L, and SS/L does not expect to do business with these entities on other than fair and competitive terms. The loss of executive officers and our inability to retain other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. The departure of any of our executive officers and our inability to retain other key employees, including personnel with security clearances for classified work and highly skilled engineers and scientists, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 29 Table of Contents MHR may be viewed as our controlling stockholder and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. As of December 31, 2010, various funds affiliated with MHR held approximately 38.9% of the outstanding voting common stock of Loral as well as all issued and outstanding shares of Loral non-voting common stock, which, when taken together, represent approximately 58.0% of the common equity of Loral as of December 31, 2010. As of March 1, 2011, representatives of MHR occupy two of the seven seats on our board of directors and a former managing principal of MHR is also on our board of directors. In addition, one of our other directors was selected by the creditors’ committee in our predecessor’s chapter 11 cases, in which MHR served as the chairman. Conflicts of interests may arise in the future between us and MHR. For example, MHR and its affiliated funds are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under our agreement with PSP, subject to certain exceptions, in the event that either (i) ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by Dr. Mark H. Rachesky, President of MHR, of our voting stock falls below certain levels or (ii) there is a change in the composition of a majority of the members of the Loral board of directors over a consecutive two-year period, we will lose our veto rights relating to certain actions by Telesat. In addition, after either of these events, PSP will have certain rights to enable it to exit from its investment in Telesat, including a right to cause Telesat to conduct an initial public offering in which PSP’s shares would be the first shares offered or, if no such offering has occurred within one year due to a lack of cooperation from Loral or Telesat, to cause the sale of Telesat and to drag along the other shareholders in such sale, subject to our right to call PSP’s shares at fair market value. Changes in tax rates or policies or changes to our tax liabilities could affect operating results. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxation on our worldwide income and foreign taxes on certain income from sources outside the United States. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate our tax liabilities, and our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we regularly evaluate the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, and there can be no assurance that any final determination by a taxing authority will not result in additional tax liability which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The future use of tax attributes is limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs of approximately $417 million and state NOLs, primarily California of approximately $303 million, that are available to offset future taxable income (see Notes 2 and 9 to the Loral consolidated financial statements for a description of the accounting treatment of such NOLs). As our reorganization on November 21, 2005 constituted an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use these NOLs, as well as certain other tax attributes existing at such effective date, is subject to an annual limitation of approximately $32.6 million, subject to increase or decrease based on certain factors. If Loral experiences an additional “ownership change” during any three-year period after November 21, 2005, future use of these tax attributes may become further limited. An ownership change may be triggered by sales or acquisitions of Loral equity interests in excess of 50% by shareholders owning five percent or more of our total equity value, i.e., the total market value of our equity interests, as determined on any applicable testing date. We would be adversely affected by an additional “ownership change” if at the time of such change, our total equity value multiplied by the federal applicable long-term tax exempt rate which at December 31, 2010 was 3.67% was less than $32.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, since our total equity value of $2.3 billion multiplied by the federal applicable long-term tax exempt rate was approximately $85 million an “ownership change” as of that date would have no adverse effect. There is a thin trading market for our common stock. Trading activity in our stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ National Market, has generally been light, averaging approximately 57,000 shares per day for the year ended December 31, 2010. Moreover, over 50% of our common stock is effectively held by MHR and several other stockholders. If any of our significant stockholders should sell some or all of their holdings, it will likely have an adverse effect on our share price. Although the funds affiliated with MHR have restrictions on their ability to sell our shares under U.S. securities laws, we have filed a shelf registration statement in respect of the common stock and non-voting common stock they hold in Loral that eliminates such restrictions. Such funds also have other demand and piggyback registration rights in respect of their Loral common stock and non-voting common stock that would also, if exercised, eliminate such restrictions. 30 Table of Contents The market for our stock could be adversely affected by future issuance of significant amounts of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 20,924,874 shares of our voting common stock and 9,505,673 shares of our non-voting common stock were outstanding. On that date, there were outstanding options to purchase 1,134,915 shares of our common stock, of which 1,072,415 were vested and exercisable and of which 62,500 will become vested and exercisable over the next two years. There were also 70,811 non-vested restricted stock units outstanding as of December 31, 2010. These restricted stock units, which may be settled either in cash or Loral stock at the Company’s option, vest over the next one and a half years. As of December 31, 2010, 682,663 shares of our common stock were available for future grants under our stock incentive plan. The number of shares available for grant would be reduced if SS/L phantom stock appreciation rights are settled in Loral common stock. Moreover, we may further amend our stock incentive plan in the future to provide for additional increases in the number of shares available for grant thereunder. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock to the public, or the perception that those sales could happen, could adversely affect the market for, and the trading price of, our common stock. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. SS/L engages in marketing, procurement of supplies and services, launch activities and satellite sales to customers located outside of the United States. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. The FCPA applies to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA, governmental authorities in the United States could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. We may incur costs to comply with or address liabilities under environmental regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental health and safety laws and regulations governing our properties and the operation of our business, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the management of asbestos-containing building materials and non-ionizing radiation equipment, releases of hazardous and toxic materials and the remediation of contamination at real property. In addition, electronic devices or components are subject to regulation in various jurisdictions requiring end-of-life management, including recycling, and/or restrictions on certain materials used in manufactured products. Compliance with such laws may result in significant liabilities and costs, including property damage or personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, penalties, capital expenditures to install or upgrade pollution control equipment, the temporary suspension of production, or a cessation of operations. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. In addition, new or stricter requirements relating to environmental health and safety laws, including restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, or materials use could result in us incurring unanticipated capital costs or operating expenses, for example, for fuel or raw materials. In addition, some environmental laws, such as the U.S. federal Superfund law and similar state statutes, can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent, or arranged to send, wastes to these sites, regardless of fault or lawfulness of the original disposal activity. 31 Table of Contents Accounting standards periodically change and the application of our accounting policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. The regulatory bodies that establish accounting standards, including, among others, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, periodically revise or issue new financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Given our reliance on estimates and on the cost-to-cost percentage of completion method of recognizing revenue, changes in accounting standards, especially revenue recognition, may have a greater effect on us than on many companies. The effect of such revised or new standards on our consolidated financial statements can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our management must exercise judgment in appropriately applying many of our accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. In some cases, the accounting policy or method chosen might be reasonable under the circumstances and yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported if we had selected a different policy or method. Accounting policies are critical to fairly presenting our results of operations and financial condition and may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Litigation and Disputes We are involved in a number of ongoing lawsuits. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, details of which can be found in Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements. In addition, we are involved in a number of disputes which might result in litigation. A decision against us in any of these lawsuits or disputes could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 