ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Federal securities laws, about our business and prospects. The forward-looking statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced after the date hereof. Our future results may differ materially from our past results and from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to various uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those set forth below, one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein after the date of this Annual Report. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects The Company intends to consolidate companies in the homeland security industry. Until its recent acquisition of Nexus, the Company had not generated any revenues other than interest income on its cash since 2003. The Company's ability to generate revenues and earnings (if any) will be directly dependent upon the operating results of such acquired business and any additional acquisitions, and the successful integration and consolidation of those businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in generating revenues and earnings based on our business model. We are dependent upon key personnel who would be difficult to replace and whose loss could impede our development The Company believes that its success will depend principally upon the experience of C. Thomas McMillen, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. McMillen has substantial experience in acquiring and consolidating businesses, our other personnel does not have significant experience in managing companies formed for the specific purpose of consolidating one or more industries or in managing businesses in the homeland security industry. As a result, the Company likely will depend on the senior management of any significant businesses it acquires in the future. Such acquired senior management may not be suitable to the Company's business model or combined operations. If the Company loses the services of one or more of its current executives, the Company's business could be adversely affected. The Company may not successfully recruit additional personnel and any additional personnel that are recruited may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary or desirable to enhance the incumbent management. The Company does not intend to maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of its executive officers. See "Management." Appropriate acquisitions may not be available which may adversely effect our growth The Company has only recently begun its acquisition program. On February 8, 2006, the Company acquired majority ownership of its first business, Nexus. The results of the Company's planned operations are dependent upon the Company's ability to identify, attract and acquire additional desirable acquisition candidates, which may take considerable time. The Company may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring additional acquisition candidates, in integrating such candidates into the Company or in realizing profits from any acquisition candidates, if acquired. The failure to complete additional acquisitions or to operate the acquired companies profitably would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. If our consolidation strategy is not successful, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected One of the Company's strategies is to increase its revenues, the range of products and services that it offers and the markets that it serves through the acquisition of additional homeland security businesses. To date, the Company has completed one acquisition and has signed nonbinding letters of intent with the two other companies. Investors have no basis on which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any future acquisition candidates' operations and prospects. Although management of the Company will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition candidate, the Company may not properly ascertain all of such risks. Management of the Company has virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates and broad discretion. Management may not succeed in selecting acquisition candidates that will be profitable or that can be integrated successfully. Although the Company intends to scrutinize closely the management of a prospective acquisition candidate in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, the Company's assessment of management may not prove to be correct. The Company may enlist the assistance of other persons to assess the management of acquisition candidates. One of the key elements of the Company's internal growth strategy is to improve the profitability and increase the revenues of acquired businesses. The Company will seek to improve the profitability and increase the revenues of acquired businesses by various means, including combining administrative functions, eliminating redundant facilities, implementing system and technology improvements, purchasing products and services in large quantities and cross-selling products and services. The Company's ability to increase revenues will be affected by various factors, including the Company's ability to expand the products and services offered to the customers of acquired companies, develop national accounts and attract and retain a sufficient number of employees to perform the Company's services. There can be no assurance that the Company's internal growth strategies will be successful. -7- Our inability to successfully integrate our acquisition may adversely affect our operations and financial condition The Company's business model is based upon an aggressive and rapid acquisition program. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully integrate its future acquisitions without substantial costs, delays or other problems. The costs of such acquisitions and their integration could have an adverse effect on short-term operating results. Such costs could include severance payments to employees of such acquired companies, restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions and other expenses associated with a change of control, as well as non-recurring acquisition costs including accounting and legal fees, investment banking fees, recognition of transaction-related obligations and various other acquisition-related costs. Any failure by the Company to make acquisitions would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the Company may be unable to replicate the success in consolidating various industries that other consolidators have achieved. The Company may not be able to execute successfully its consolidation strategy or anticipate all of the changing demands that consolidation transactions will impose on its management personnel, operational and management information systems and financial systems. The integration of newly acquired companies may also lead to diversion of management attention from other ongoing business concerns. In addition, the rapid pace of acquisitions may adversely affect the Company's efforts to integrate acquisitions and manage those acquisitions profitably. Moreover, it is possible that neither management of the Company nor management of any of the acquired companies will have the necessary skills to manage a company implementing an aggressive acquisition program. The Company may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the acquired companies but the Company may not have the ability to recruit additional managers with the skills necessary to enhance the management of the acquired companies. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Competition and industry consolidation may limit our ability to implement our business strategies The Company expects to face significant competition to acquire homeland security businesses from larger companies that currently pursue, or are expected to pursue, acquisitions as part of their growth strategies and as the industry undergoes continuing consolidation. Such competition could lead to higher prices being paid for acquired companies. The Company believes that the homeland security industry will undergo considerable consolidation during the next several years. The Company expects that, in response to such consolidation it will consider from time to time additional strategies to enhance stockholder value. These include, among others, strategic alliances and joint ventures; purchase, sale and merger transactions with other large companies; and other similar transactions. In considering any of these strategies, the Company will evaluate the consequences of such strategies, including, among other things, the potential for leverage that would result from such a transaction, the tax effects of the transaction, and the accounting consequences of the transaction. In addition, such strategies could have various other significant consequences, including changes in management, control or operational or acquisition strategies of the Company. There can be no assurance that any one of these strategies will be undertaken, or that, if undertaken, any such strategy will be completed successfully. Failure to qualify for investment company act exemptions could adversely effect our growth and financial condition The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act also may apply to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities that bring it within the Investment Company Act's definition of an investment company. The Company believes that its principal activities, which will involve acquiring control of operating companies and providing managerial and consulting services, will not subject the Company to registration and regulation under the Investment Company Act. The Company intends to remain exempt from investment company regulation either by not engaging in investment company activities or by qualifying for the exemption from investment company regulation available to any company that has no more than 45% of its total assets invested in, and no more than 45% of its income derived from, investment securities, as defined in the Investment Company Act. -8- There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid registration and regulation as an investment company. In the event the Company is unable to avail itself of an exemption or safe harbor from the Investment Company Act, the Company may become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company's activities, as noted below, and contracts entered into by the Company at such time that it was an unregistered investment company may be unenforceable. The Investment Company Act imposes substantive requirements on registered investment companies including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on certain investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our financial condition could be harmed if businesses we acquire failed to comply with applicable laws or have other undisclosed liabilities Any business that we acquire may have been subject to many of the same laws and regulations to which our business is subject and possibly to others, including laws and regulations impacting companies that do business with federal, state and local governments. If any business that we acquire has not conducted its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be held accountable or otherwise suffer adverse consequences, such as significant fines or unexpected termination of contracts. Businesses we acquire may have other undisclosed liabilities we do not discover during the acquisition process that could result in liability to us or other unanticipated problems, such as product liability claims. Unexpected liabilities such as these could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Costs arising from our any future acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition Any acquisition that we make could result in the use of our cash, incurrence and assumption of debt, contingent liabilities, significant acquisition-related expenses, amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets, and research and development write-offs, and could require us to record goodwill and other intangible assets that could result in future impairments that could harm our financial results. We will likely incur significant transaction costs pursuing acquisitions, including acquisitions that may not be consummated. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from our acquisitions to offset their costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our ability to implement our business strategy and our operating results will likely be materially adversely affected Our efforts to acquire and collaborate with complementary businesses have placed, and will likely continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operating and financial infrastructures. Our management will be required to devote considerable time to our acquisition and integration efforts, which will reduce the time they will have to implement our business and growth strategy. To manage our business and planned growth effectively, we must successfully develop, implement, maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls, integrate new personnel and businesses and manage expanded operations. We are still in the process of developing and implementing our operating and financial systems, including our internal systems and controls, which will be critical to properly managing expanded operations. This process will be made more difficult as a public company, because, among other things, we are required to develop effective internal controls over financial reporting and to comply with the related management certification and auditor attestation requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are unable to make these improvements in our operating and financial reporting systems and to otherwise effectively manage our growth, our ability to implement our business strategy and our operating results will likely be materially adversely affected. Because our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, the market price for our stock may be volatile Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our stock price may be volatile. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results and volatility in our stock price: o expenses incurred in pursuing and closing acquisitions and in follow-up integration efforts; o changes in customers' budgets and procurement policies and priorities, and funding delays, particularly with respect to government contracts; -9- o new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; o unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and bid protest costs; o unanticipated delays or problems in releasing new products and services; and o the amount and timing of our investments in research and development activities and manufacturing improvements. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could materially adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results could cause our stock price to decline. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance. In any particular quarter or quarters, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and our stock price could decline as a result. Government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business A substantial portion of our revenues may result from sales of our products and services to federal, state and local governments for programs in the homeland security industry, many of which are funded by the Department of Homeland Security and other federal government agencies. Our business may depend to a significant extent on continued government expenditures on homeland security and related programs and policies. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of legislative appropriations. Congress and state and local legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made for future fiscal years. While spending authorization by the federal, state and local governments for homeland security programs has increased in recent years, and in particular after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, future expenditures for these programs may decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide products or services. A significant decline in government expenditures or a shift of expenditures away from programs that are supported by our products and services could materially adversely affect our business, revenues and operating results. Obligations of our chief executive officer may create a conflict of interest that could adversely affect the Company<129>fs operations Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, C. Thomas McMillen ("McMillen") is required to devote at least 25 hours per week to the Company pursuant to an employment agreement, dated as of August 29, 2005, with the Company (the "McMillen Employment Agreement"). Mr. McMillen also serves as Chairman of Fortress America Acquisition Corporation ("FAAC"), a blank check company that completed an initial public offering in July 2005 that is seeking a merger or acquisition target in the homeland security industry. The officers and directors of FAAC, including McMillen, have agreed in principle, until the earlier of a business combination, liquidation or such time as they cease to be an officer or director, to present to FAAC for its consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, including the Company, any business opportunity which may reasonably be required to be presented to them under Delaware law, subject, however, to any pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations they might have. The initial target business or businesses that FAAC acquires must have a collective fair market value equal to at least 80% of its net assets of its net assets at the time of acquisition or approximately in excess of $34 million. The Company's acquisition focus is primarily on companies with market values less than $20 million. While the McMillen Employment Agreement does not preclude McMillen from competing with the Company through his position as an officer of FAAC, the initial acquisition focus of the two companies from a size-standpoint will be significantly different. It is possible that FAAC will become a competitor of ours if the business it acquires serves markets or sectors of the homeland security industry the Company is serving. -10- In 2003, McMillen also co-founded Global Secure Corp., a homeland security company providing integrated products and services for critical incident providers. While McMillen's employment agreement with the Company does not preclude him from competing with the Company through his ownership interest in Global Secure Corp., McMillen has currently no active role with Global Secure Corp. It is possible that Global Secure Corp. will become a competitor of ours if the Company acquires companies serving the critical incident response marketplace. General Risks We May Need To Raise Additional Capital On Terms Unfavorable To Our Stockholders Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for the next calendar year. However, we do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the defense and security industries. Further, our acquisition strategy will likely require additional equity or debt financings. Such financings could also be required to support our traditional and recently required operating units. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financings to fuel our growth strategy and support our existing businesses. Our Common Stock Is Deemed To Be "Penny Stock," Which May Make It More Difficult For Investors To Sell Their Shares Due To Suitability Requirements Our common stock is deemed to be "penny stock" as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Penny stocks are stock: o with a price of less than $5.00 per share; o that are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; o whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or o stock in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. In addition to the "penny stock" rules promulgated by the Commission, the NASD has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the NASD believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The NASD requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our Common Stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) "boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired consequent investor losses. The Company's management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although the Company does not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to the Company's securities. We Do Not Expect To Pay Dividends With Respect To Our Common Stock Which May Hinder Our Ability To Attract Additional Capital The Company has not paid any dividends on its Common Stock to date. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. It is the present intention of the Board of Directors to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the Company's business operations and, accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. -11- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 