Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information about risks and uncertainties that may affect us or our business, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. If any of the following events, described as risks, actually occur, either alone or taken together, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should not invest in our securities if you cannot bear the economic risk of your investment for an indefinite period of time and cannot afford to lose your entire investment.There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We will need to raise additional capital in order to continue operating our business and continue to develop new products and technologies, and such additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all We have not generated, and may never generate, significant cash from operations and must raise additional funds in order to continue operating our business. Our cash outflows for operating activities and for investments in patents and fixed assets were $5.8 million in the year ended July 31, 2012, and $6.4 million in the year ended July 31, 2011. Cash outflows may be greater in future periods. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other factors: • the acceptance of, and demand for, our products; • our success and that of our strategic partners in developing and selling products derived from our technology; • the costs of further developing our existing, and developing new, products or technologies; • the extent to which we invest in new technology, testing and product development; • the timing of vendor payments and of the collection of receivables, among other factors affecting our working capital; • the exercise of outstanding options or warrants to acquire our common stock; • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions, if any; and • the costs associated with the continued operation, and any future growth, of our business. We will need to increase our liquidity and capital resources. We expect to rely in the near term on funds raised pursuant to an underwritten public offering closed on September 17, 2012 of an aggregate of 4,341,615 shares of our common stock (including shares issued pursuant to the exercise of the underwriter’s overallotment option), as well as funds raised pursuant to two recent private placement offerings of our common stock and other equity (although we have used certain of those funds to repay the principal balance owed under the Bridge Loan (as defined below)). However, we anticipate that we will require additional capital in future periods to continue our operations and further develop our products and technologies. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to increase our liquidity and capital resources by one or more measures, which may include reducing operating expenses, raising additional financing through the issuance of debt, equity, or convertible securities, entering into partnerships, licenses, or other arrangements with third parties, reducing the exercise price of outstanding warrants, or through other means, any one of which could reduce the value to us, perhaps substantially, of our technology and its commercial potential. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Insufficient funds would result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations and could cause us to fail to execute our business plan, fail to take advantage of future opportunities, or fail to respond to competitive pressures or customer requirements, and further may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs, license to third parties the right to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise commercialize ourselves, reduce our operations, or otherwise significantly modify our business model or cease operations altogether. Modification of our business model and operations could result in an impairment of assets, which cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, if we continue to issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are superior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability We had a loss of $8.9 million for the year ended July 31, 2012, and a loss of $8.3 million for the year ended July 31, 2011. As of July 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $62.5 million. Although we expect to continue to have losses in future periods, we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses or when or if we will become profitable, and it is possible we will never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. 9 None of our existing agreements contain provisions that guarantee us any minimum revenues. If the penetration into the marketplace of SDC and SDC-based products is unsuccessful, revenue growth is slower than anticipated or operating expenses exceed expectations, it may take an unforeseen period of time to achieve or maintain profitability and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Slower than anticipated revenue growth could force us to reduce research, testing, development and marketing of our technologies, and/or force us to reduce the size and scope of our operations, to sell or license our technologies to third parties, or to cease operations altogether. The risks associated with our business may be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to other consequences, these periods may be accompanied by decreased consumer and institutional spending in general, as well as decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, our products. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a result, given the current weakness and uncertainties in the U.S. and in certain overseas economies, we expect that our business will continue to be adversely affected for so long as, and to the extent that, such adverse economic conditions and uncertainty exist. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights We expect that we will need to increase our liquidity and capital resources in our current fiscal year and in future periods. We have a history of raising funds through offerings of our common stock, and we may in the future raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Additionally, any debt financing we obtain may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens on our assets, pay dividends on or redeem our capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us or relinquish potentially valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies. We may be required in future collaborations to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to our products or license intellectual property that enable licensees to develop competing products in order to complete any such transaction. As a result of the reverse stock split that we recently effected, the number of our outstanding shares of common stock was reduced at a ratio of one-for-eight, while the number of our authorized shares of common and preferred stock did not change. Accordingly, our authorized common stock remains 100,000,000 shares. In addition to capital raising activities, other possible business and financial uses for our authorized common stock include, without limitation, future stock splits, acquiring other companies, businesses or products in exchange for shares of common stock, issuing shares of our common stock to partners in connection with strategic alliances, attracting and retaining employees by the issuance of additional securities under our various equity compensation plans, satisfying any debt we may have by issuing equity securities, or other transactions and corporate purposes that our Board of Directors, or Board, deems are in our best interest. Additionally, shares of common stock could be used for anti-takeover purposes or to delay or prevent changes in control or management of the Company. For example, without further stockholder approval, our Board could approve the sale of shares of common stock in a private transaction to purchasers who may oppose a takeover or favor our current Board. We cannot provide assurances that any issuances of common stock will be consummated on favorable terms or at all, that they will enhance stockholder value, or that they will not adversely affect our business or the trading price of our common stock. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board could also authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock on terms determined by the Board. If any common or preferred stock is issued, the interests of holders of our common stock could be diluted, and shares of preferred stock could be issued in a financing in which investors purchase preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges that may be superior to those of the common stock, and the market price of our common stock could decline. If outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised, the interests of our stockholders could be diluted As of October 24, 2012, in addition to 10,986,170 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, we currently have 323,463 shares reserved for issuance under equity compensation plans for vested and unvested stock options. We also have 803,321 shares reserved for issuance on the exercise of outstanding warrants. 10 We may elect to reduce the exercise price of outstanding warrants as a means of providing additional financing to us. The exercise of options and warrants, and the sale of shares underlying such options or warrants, could have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock, including the price that an investor could obtain for their shares. Investors may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their investment upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants granted under our stock option plans, and options and warrants that may be granted or issued in the future. Because we are an early stage company, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects; our financial results may fluctuate and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall Since acquiring the rights to our SDC technology, we have encountered and likely will continue to encounter risks and difficulties associated with introducing or establishing our products in rapidly evolving markets. These risks include the following, among others: • we may not increase our sales to our existing customers and/or expand our customer base; • we may not succeed in materially penetrating markets and applications for our SDC technology; • our new sales and marketing strategy, which is built on our direct control of the sales and marketing of our products, may not be successful; • we or our partners and/or distributors may not establish or maintain effective marketing programs and create product awareness or brand identity; • our partners’ and/or distributors’ goals and objectives may not be consistent with our own; • we may not attract and retain key business development, technical and management personnel; • we may not maintain existing, or obtain new, regulatory approvals for our technology and products; • we may not succeed in locating strategic partners and licensees of our technology; • we may not effectively manage our anticipated growth, if any; and • we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we face. In addition, because of our limited operating history and the early stage of market development for our SDC technology, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. Forecasting future revenues is difficult, especially because our technology is novel, and market acceptance of our products could change rapidly. In addition, our customers and potential customers in the foreseeable future are highly concentrated. Fluctuations in the buying patterns of our current or potential customers could significantly affect the level of our sales on a period to period basis. As a result, our financial results could fluctuate to an extent that may adversely affect our stock price. There are a number of other factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate unexpectedly, including product sales, the mix of product sales, the cost of product sales, our ability for any reason to be able to meet demand, the achievement and timing of research and development and regulatory milestones, changes in expenses, including non-cash expenses such as the fair value of stock options granted, and manufacturing or supply issues, among other issues. We are dependent on our core SDC technology and if our efforts to achieve or maintain market acceptance of our core SDC technology are not successful, we are unlikely to attain profitability We have and are currently focusing substantially all of our time and financial resources in the development and commercialization of our core SDC technology. We believe SDC has applications in multiple industries and we expect that sales of SDC and SDC-based products will constitute a substantial portion, or all, of our revenues in future periods. Any material decrease in the overall level of sales or expected sales of, or the prices for, SDC or SDC-based products, whether as a result of competition, change in customer demand, or any other factor, would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are marketing our new antimicrobial silver ion technology to industrial and consumer markets. These technologies and the products that incorporate them have not yet been accepted into the marketplace, and may never be accepted. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain product sales or other forms of revenue over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost-effective or otherwise render our products less attractive or obsolete. We are subject to intense competition Our SDC-based products compete in highly competitive markets dominated by prominent chemical and pharmaceutical companies. Most of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors already have well established brands and distribution capabilities, and in some cases are able to leverage the sale of other products with more favorable terms for products competing with our own. We also have significantly fewer employees than virtually all of our competitors. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are for large chemical and pharmaceutical companies to consolidate into a smaller number of very large entities, which further concentrates financial, technical and market strength and increases competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete with these very large entities for the same markets and/or products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a share of those markets. It is also possible that developments by our competitors will make our technologies or products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability, and the ability of our distributors and other partners, to develop brand recognition and novel distribution methods, and to displace existing, established and future products in our relevant target markets. We, or our distributors and partners, may not be successful in doing so, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 We have limited sales, marketing and product distribution experience We have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. While we previously relied primarily on product distribution arrangements and/or sales and marketing services provided by third parties, we have now developed and obtained EPA registration of our proprietary brand, PURE® Hard Surface disinfectant and food contact surface sanitizer, and have resumed direct control of our sales of this product through a restructuring of our sales strategy and operations. Our new sales and marketing strategy requires that we enact various operational changes in our business, including making significant investments in our own sales and marketing organization. We intend to market and sell our PURE Hard Surface and related SDC-based products into consumer, commercial and institutional markets through both traditional and alternative distribution channels. We have commenced the launch of a multi-channel national sales program, which involves our development of an internal team of industry sales experts to manage each of our key channels and our deployment of contract sales representative within each of those channels. Our current sales and marketing strategies and programs may not be successful, and we may not be able to establish the sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities necessary to directly control and manage these aspects of our operations. If we are not able to successfully sell, market and distribute these products directly, we may seek to establish product distribution arrangements with third parties, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We expect to rely on third parties to develop SDC-based products, and they may not do so successfully or diligently We rely in part, and expect to rely in the future, on third parties to whom we license rights to our technology to develop and commercialize products containing SDC for many of the applications for which we believe SDC-based products have, or may have, market opportunities. Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. In such arrangements, we have relied, and expect in the future to rely, on the third party to fund and direct product development activities and appropriate regulatory filings. Any of these third parties may not be able to successfully develop such SDC-based products due to, among other factors, a lack of capital, a lack of appropriate diligence, insufficient devotion to sales efforts, a change in the evaluation by the third party of the market potential for SDC-based products, technical failures, and poorer than expected results from testing or trial use of any products that may be developed. If the third parties on which we rely are not successful in such development activities, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new applications of our SDC technology, or if such efforts are delayed, our operating results will suffer In addition to its use on inanimate surfaces, we are pursuing applications of our SDC technology as a broad-spectrum antimicrobial for use in human and veterinary healthcare products. Any product developed may be delayed or may never achieve regulatory approval or be commercialized. Delays in achieving regulatory approvals for particular applications of our products could significantly impact our product development costs. If indications are commercialized, we may not receive a share of future revenues that provides an adequate return on our historical or future investment. If we are not able to manage any growth we achieve effectively, we may not become profitable If our efforts to achieve and maintain market acceptance of our SDC technology are successful, we will need to expand our business operations. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to do. There also can be no assurance that if we continue to invest in additional infrastructure, we will be effective in expanding our operations or that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support such expansion. In addition, we would need to provide additional sales and support services to our partners, potentially in multiple markets. Failure to properly manage increased customer demands, if any, could result in a material adverse effect on customer satisfaction, our ability to meet our contractual obligations, and our operating results. 12 The industries in which we operate are heavily regulated and we may be unable to compete effectively We are focused on the marketing and continued development of our SDC antimicrobial technology. We believe that all products derived from our SDC technology, or products that may be derived from our SDC technology in future periods, require or will require approval by government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or in foreign markets. Complying with applicable government regulations and obtaining necessary approvals can be, and has historically been, time consuming and expensive, due in part, we believe, to the novel nature of our technology. Regulatory review could involve delays or other actions adversely affecting the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. While we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any pending or future regulatory review processes or the extent or impact of any future changes to legislation or regulations affecting review processes, we expect such processes to remain time consuming and expensive as we, or our partners, apply for approval to make new or additional efficacy claims for current products or to market new product formulations. Obtaining approvals for new SDC-based products in the U.S., or in markets outside the U.S., could take several years, or may never be accomplished. SDC is a platform technology rather than a single use applied technology. As such, products developed from the platform fall under the jurisdiction of multiple U.S. and international regulatory agencies. Our disinfectant and sanitizer products are regulated in the U.S. by the EPA. In addition to the EPA, each of the 50 United States has its own government agencies that regulate the sale or shipment of our products into their state. We have obtained registration for these products from the EPA and all states into which such products are currently marketed and sold. We are required to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and pay ongoing fees in order to maintain such registrations. We may not be able to maintain these registrations in the future, which may eliminate our continued ability to market and sell our products in some or all parts of the U.S. We also may not be able to obtain necessary registrations with the EPA and applicable states for other SDC disinfectant and sanitizer products that we or our partners may develop, which would limit our ability to sell any such products in the future. Some potential applications of SDC, such as those aimed at healthcare, veterinary and certain food preparation markets, may require approval of other government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or in foreign markets, such as the FDA. Obtaining FDA approval is a complicated and expensive process and such approvals may never be obtained for any SDC products. If FDA approvals are obtained, the approvals may limit the uses for which SDC products may be marketed such that they may not be profitable to us, and the applicable products would be subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA that could lead to withdrawal of product approvals. We intend to fund and manage certain of our EPA-regulated product development internally, in conjunction with our regulatory consultants and by partnering with other third parties. We have partnered, or intend to partner, with third parties who are seeking, or intend to seek, approvals to market SDC-based products in markets outside the U.S., and with other third parties who are developing FDA-regulated SDC-based products who, upon such development, would seek FDA approvals of such products. Our ability to market and sell our products is dependent on our and our partners’ ability to obtain and maintain required registrations and approvals of applicable regulatory agencies. Failure by our partners or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines or the withdrawal of approval for us or our partners and distributors to market our products in some or all jurisdictions, which could cause us to be unable to successfully commercialize SDC or otherwise achieve revenues from sales of such products. We are subject to substantial regulation related to quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, and our failure to comply with applicable quality standards could affect our ability to commercialize SDC products The EPA and other applicable U.S. and foreign government agencies regulate our and our partners’ systems and processes for manufacturing SDC-based products. These regulations require that we and our partners observe “good manufacturing practices” in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness. Failure by us or our partners to comply with current or future government regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls or related field actions, product shortages, and/or delays in product manufacturing, any or all of which could cause significant cost to us. Further, efficacy or safety concerns and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products or those of our partners could lead to product recalls, fines, withdrawal of approvals, and/or declining sales, any or all of which could result in our failure to successfully commercialize SDC or otherwise achieve revenue growth. Pricing and supply issues may have a material impact on our margins and our ability to supply our customers All of the supply ingredients used to manufacture our products are available from multiple suppliers. However, commodity prices for some ingredients can vary significantly and the margins that we are able to generate could decline if prices rise. For example, both silver and citric acid prices have been volatile in recent periods. In addition to such commodities, for finished products we also rely on producers of specialized packaging inputs such as bottles and labels. Due to their specialized nature, the supply of such inputs can be periodically constrained, and result in additional costs to obtain these items, which may in turn inhibit our ability to supply products to our customers. We are generally unable to raise our product prices to our customers, partners and distributors quickly to maintain our margins, and significant price increases for key inputs could therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Price increases can also result in lost sales, and any inability to supply our customers’ orders can lead to lost future sales to such customers. 13 While we expect to be the sole source supplier of SDC concentrate, in future periods we may use third parties to blend, package and provide fulfillment activities for our finished products. We expect that our margins would be reduced by using such third parties, and our ability to maintain product quality may not be as extensive or effective as when we produce these products in our own facility(ies). Any quality control issues could lead to product recalls and/or the loss of future sales, which would reduce our revenues and/or profits. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety or efficacy of our products, our sales may be harmed If concerns should arise about the safety or efficacy of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for those products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not those claims are supported by applicable law. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales and profitability may decline Our sole manufacturing facility and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The facility may be affected by natural or man-made disasters and in the event they were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to set up alternative production capacity or rely on third party manufacturers to whom we would have to disclose our trade secrets. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and may not address the marketing and goodwill consequences of our inability to provide products to meet customers’ requirements. If we are unable to obtain, maintain or defend patent and other intellectual property ownership rights relating to our technology, we or our collaborators and distributors may not be able to develop and market products based on our technology, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations We rely and expect in the future to rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright protections, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology and business. Legal protections of our intellectual property and proprietary rights afford only limited protection. For instance, we currently own nine U.S. patents related to our SDC technology. The lives of these patents, and any patents that we may obtain in the future, are not indefinite, and the value to us of some or all of our patents may be limited by their terms. Further, although we have a number of U.S. and international patent applications pending, some or all of those applications may not result in issued patents, and the intellectual property claims therein would be unprotected. Additionally, obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on our compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by government patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of patent protection and protections of other intellectual property and proprietary rights in the U.S. are uncertain. Additionally, to the extent that we operate internationally, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. For instance, many countries have a “first-to-file” trademark registration system, which may prevent us from registering or using our trademarks in certain countries if third parties have previously filed applications to register or have registered the same or similar trademarks. Additionally, changes in the patent and/or trademark laws or interpretations of such laws in the U.S. or other countries could diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. Moreover, our competitors may develop competing technologies that are not covered by the claims of, and therefore do not infringe upon, our issued patents, which could render our patents less valuable to us. If certain of our proprietary rights cannot be, or are not sufficiently, protected by patent and trademark registrations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to commercialize or license our technology and products. Our own efforts to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may also be insufficient. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, including without limitation through confidentiality and other similar contractual restrictions, our means of protecting such rights may not be adequate and unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our proprietary technology, obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise misappropriate our intellectual property. In addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. It is possible that, despite our efforts, competitors or others will create and use products, adopt service names similar to our service names or otherwise violate or misappropriate our proprietary rights. The infringement of such rights could have a material negative impact on our business and on our results of operations. 14 Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which would be expensive and could consume time and other resources. The result of any such litigation may be the court’s ruling that our patents or other intellectual property rights are invalid and/or should not be enforced. Additionally, even if the validity of such rights is upheld, the court could refuse to stop a third party’s infringing activity on the ground that such activities do not infringe our rights. The U.S. Supreme Court has recently revised certain tests regarding granting patents and assessing the validity of patents to make it more difficult to obtain patents. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain invalid claims according to the newly revised standards. Some of our patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a reexamination proceeding, or during litigation, under the revised criteria. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products Our manufacture, use and sale of SDC-based products may subject us to lawsuits relating to the validity and infringement of patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. If we are found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property or proprietary rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in our business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. If the rights holders are willing to permit us to continue to use their intellectual property rights, it may be necessary for us to enter into license arrangements with unfavorable terms and pay substantial amounts in royalty and other license fees. Either having to cease use or pay such fees could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which could make us much less competitive in our industry and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become subject to product liability claims As a business that manufactures and markets products for use by consumers and institutions, we may become liable for any damage caused by our products, whether used in the manner intended or not. Regardless of merit or potential outcome, product liability claims against us may result in, among other effects, the inability to commercialize our products, impairment of our business reputation, and distraction of management’s attention from our primary business. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims we could incur substantial liabilities. Although we maintain general and product liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims and may not be adequate to indemnify for liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could harm our business and operating results. Litigation or the actions of regulatory authorities may harm our business or otherwise distract our management Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur major expenditures and would distract our management. For example, lawsuits against us or our officers or directors by employees, former employees, stockholders, partners, customers, or others, or actions taken by regulatory authorities, could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Such lawsuits and actions are not uncommon, and we may not be able to resolve such disputes or actions on terms favorable to us, and there may not be sufficient capital resources available to defend such actions effectively, or at all. Maintaining compliance with our obligations as a public company may strain our resources and distract management, and if we do not remain compliant our stock price may be adversely affected Our common stock is registered under the Exchange Act. It is therefore subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. Both the U.S. Congress and the SEC continue to issue new and proposed rules, and complying with existing and new rules has caused, and will continue to cause, us to devote significant financial and other resources to maintain our status as a public company. In addition, in April 2008 we obtained a listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, adding the additional cost and administrative burden of maintaining such a listing. Such costs have been significantly increased since the commencement in September 2011 of a series of notices and a lengthy appeal process in connection with the potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is described in further detail under the heading “Recent Developments” in Item 7 of this Annual Report. These additional regulatory costs and requirements will reduce our future profits or increase our future losses, and an increasing amount of management time and effort will be needed to meet our regulatory obligations. 15 We are required to evaluate our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our management is required to attest to the adequacy of our internal controls. Recent SEC pronouncements suggest that in the next several years we may be required to report our financial results using new International Financial Reporting Standards, replacing GAAP, which would require us to make significant investments in training, hiring, consulting and information technology, among other investments. All of these and other reporting requirements and heightened corporate governance obligations that we face, or will face, will further increase the cost to us, perhaps substantially, of remaining compliant with our obligations under the Exchange Act and other applicable laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. In order to meet these incremental obligations, we will need to invest in our corporate and accounting infrastructure and systems, and acquire additional services from third party auditors and advisors. As a result of these requirements and investments, we may incur significant additional expenses and may suffer a significant diversion of management’s time. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to meet these obligations in a timely manner. If we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market and/or our common stock could be delisted. Any such actions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, perhaps significantly. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed from time to time by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock The reports and other securities filings of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements. The SEC is required, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years, although an SEC review may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply, in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in our filings as a result of any SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. We are dependent on our management team Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time without notice and without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on our executive officers or other employees, other than Michael L. Krall, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer. The policy we have on Mr. Krall would likely not provide a benefit sufficient to offset the financial losses resulting from the loss of Mr. Krall’s future services. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to recruit qualified personnel able to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on terms acceptable to either us or to any qualified candidate. In addition, on May 10, 2012, we announced that our former Chief Financial Officer, Craig Johnson, tendered his resignation from his position as our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Johnson also previously served as our Principal Financial Officer and our Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Johnson’s last day at the Company was May 4, 2012. Effective May 11, 2012, Michael L. Krall was appointed as our Interim Chief Financial Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer and will serve in such positions until a permanent Chief Financial Officer is appointed. This management transition could result in disruptions to our business and could cause our operations to suffer. Because competition for highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our planned growth To successfully meet our objectives, we must continue to attract and retain highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel with specialized skill sets focused on the industries in which we compete, or intend to compete. Competition for qualified business development and bioengineering personnel can be intense. Our ability to meet our business development objectives will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand our technology and business. In addition, it takes time for our new personnel to become productive and to learn our business. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified business development and bioengineering personnel, it will be difficult for us to sell our products or to license our technology, or to achieve or maintain regulatory approvals, and we may experience a shortfall in revenue and not achieve our anticipated, or any, growth. 16 We anticipate significant changes to the composition of our Board of Directors in the near term Effective July 9, 2012, we entered a settlement agreement in connection with the termination of the Richmont Litigation (as defined below) and the withdrawal of a proxy solicitation in favor of a slate of six nominees for election as directors on our Board at our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders held on July 31, 2012, all as described in further detail in Item 3 of this Annual Report. Pursuant to the terms of that settlement agreement, we are obligated to make good faith efforts to, within 12 months after the date of our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, replace one member of our Board with a new independent director and add to our Board an additional independent director. In addition, one of our independent directors and a member of our Audit Committee and our Compensation Committee, Gregory Barnhill, unexpectedly died on September 14, 2012. Accordingly, we anticipate significant changes to the composition of our Board and the committees thereof in the near term. We may not be able to identify, attract and retain qualified and suitable candidates for our Board and certain Board committees who meet the requirements set forth in the settlement agreement and applicable SEC and NASDAQ listing rules in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to do so, we could be subject to litigation relating to the settlement agreement or sanctions by applicable regulatory authorities, including without limitation the potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Further, even if we do identify and successfully attract new directors to sit on our Board, such transition in the composition of our Board and its committees could result in inefficiencies in Board activity, disagreements regarding our business models or other operational strategies, and disruptions to our business. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management From time to time we may consider engaging in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases and out-licensing or in-licensing of products, product candidates or technologies. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, these transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including, among others, exposure to unknown liabilities, disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention in order to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies, difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, and inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Accordingly, although we may not choose to undertake or may not be able to successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do undertake or complete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may invest or spend our cash in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a significant return Our management has considerable discretion in the use of our cash. Our cash may be used for purposes that do not increase our operating results or market value. Until the cash is used, it may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or that may lose value. The failure of our management to invest or spend our cash effectively could result in unfavorable returns and uncertainty about our prospects, each of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to utilize all, or any, of our tax net operating loss carry-forwards and our future after-tax earnings, if any, could be reduced At July 31, 2012, we had federal and California tax net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $70.7 million and $60.0 million, respectively. Utilization of these net operating loss carry-forwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as well as similar state provisions. These ownership changes may limit the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups. Since our formation, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions (both before and after our initial public offering in 1996) which, combined with the purchasing stockholders’ subsequent disposition of those shares, may have resulted in such an ownership change, or could result in an ownership change in the future based upon subsequent disposition. While we believe that we have not experienced an ownership change, the pertinent tax rules related thereto are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and thus complete assurance cannot be provided that the taxing authorities would not take an alternative position. Our current federal tax loss carry-forwards began expiring in the year ended July 31, 2011 and, unless previously utilized, will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2031. In the years ending July 31, 2013 and 2014, $1.9 million of our federal net operating loss carry-forwards will expire, and the balance of our current federal net operating loss carry-forwards will expire between July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2031. Our California tax loss carry-forwards will begin to expire in the year ending July 31, 2014, and will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2031. If we are unable to earn sufficient profits to utilize the carry-forwards by these dates, they will no longer be available to offset future profits, if any. 17 We are subject to tax audits by various tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions From time to time we may be audited by tax authorities to whom we are subject. Any assessment resulting from such audits, if any, could result in material changes to our past or future taxable income, tax payable or deferred tax assets, and could require us to pay penalties and interest that could materially adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile, which may cause investment losses for our stockholders The price and trading volume of our common stock have historically been volatile. For example, in the twelve months through October 24, 2012, the closing market price of our common stock ranged from $0.99 per share to $5.60 per share, and the monthly trading volume varied from approximately 298,000 shares to 11,042,000 shares. The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including, among others, the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • the sale by us of our common or preferred stock or other securities, or the anticipation of sales of such securities; • the trading volume of our common stock, particularly if such volume is light; • the trading market of our common stock and our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange; • the introduction of new products or services, or product or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights or regulatory approvals or denials; • announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or our competitors; • sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by our insiders (management and directors); • conditions and trends in our industry; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market for shares of novel technology and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of bioscience companies have been unusually volatile in the last year, and such volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, this volatility could adversely affect an investor’s ability to sell shares of our common stock, and/or the available price for such shares, at any given time. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. Such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Potential future sales or issuances of our common stock to raise capital, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause dilution to our current stockholders and the price of our common stock to fall Although we are pursuing various sources of potential funding, we have historically supported our operations through the issuance of equity and expect to continue to do so in the future. Although we may not be successful in obtaining financing through equity sales on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, any such sales that do occur could result in substantial dilution to the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities to any new investors, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. We may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ listing In April 2008, we obtained a listing for our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain our listing, we must meet certain listing standards that include maintaining minimum thresholds of stockholders’ equity, market value of our listed or publicly held securities, number of publicly held shares, bid price for our common stock, number of stockholders, number of market makers, and our net income. In addition, certain of our corporate governance policies are required to remain compliant with standards determined, and amended from time to time, by the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ. 18 As previously disclosed in certain of our reports filed with the SEC, commencing in September 2011, we have received a series of deficiency letters from NASDAQ and undergone a lengthy appeal process with a NASDAQ Hearings Panel, or the Panel, relating to the potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market for noncompliance with several listing rules and standards. Although NASDAQ determined on September 21, 2012 that we had regained compliance with applicable listing standards and closed the matter of our delisting on that date, on October 1, 2012 we received an additional deficiency letter from NASDAQ notifying us of our noncompliance with NASDAQ listing rules related to audit committee membership requirements. Although NASDAQ has granted us a cure period in connection with our most recent noncompliance, we may not be able to regain or maintain our compliance with applicable NASDAQ requirements in the future and our securities could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Such delisting could cause our common stock to be classified as “penny stock” and decrease the liquidity of our common stock, among other potentially detrimental consequences, any of which could significantly impact your ability to sell your shares of our common stock or to sell your shares at a price that you may deem to be acceptable. Further, should our securities fail to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our ability to attract new or certain types of investors and raise additional capital could be adversely affected, which could harm our business and financial condition. Our recently effected one-for-eight reverse stock split has not resulted in a lasting increase in our stock price at an equivalent ratio On August 14, 2012 and commencing with the opening of trading on August 15, 2012, we effected a one-for-eight reverse stock split of our outstanding shares of common stock. We effected the reverse stock split in large part to increase the per share price of our common stock in order to regain compliance with certain NASDAQ minimum bid price requirements. Although the trading price of our common stock increased by a corresponding ratio in the weeks immediately following the effectuation of the reverse stock split, as of October 24, 2012, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market had dropped to $1.16. If the trading price of our common stock continues to decline, we could again be at risk for the delisting of our securities from the NASDAQ Capital Market due to our failure to satisfy NASDAQ’s $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement. Additionally, the decline in our stock price after the reverse stock split may materially reduce our ability to attract new investors in our securities, particularly institutional investors that are frequently subject to investment restrictions with respect to securities trading below a pre-established per share trading price. Further, the liquidity of our outstanding common stock may be adversely affected by the reverse stock split due to the one-for-eight reduction in the number of outstanding shares and the increase in our stock price at a significantly lesser ratio, which may impact your ability to sell your shares of our common stock at a price you consider acceptable. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our available cash to fund the development and growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board deems relevant. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock, which may never occur. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us that is not approved by our Board, even if such events may be beneficial to the interests of stockholders. For example, our Board, without stockholder approval, has the authority and power to authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and such preferred stock could have voting or conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. Further, the one-for-eight reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock that we recently effected has increased the proportion of unissued and authorized common shares to issued and outstanding common shares, which could allow our Board to issue large numbers of additional shares of our common stock that could significantly reduce the voting power of our current stockholders. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our charter documents may make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest or other change of control transaction involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction could cause stockholders to lose a substantial premium over the then-current market price of their shares. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 