Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business, our future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that can affect our business, our future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. We May Fail To Realize the Anticipated Cost Savings, Revenue Enhancements and Other Benefits Expected From the Merger. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to achieve from the Merger. The Merger integrated Alcatel and Lucent, two companies that had previously operated independently. We and Alcatel entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that, among other things, the Merger would enable Alcatel-Lucent to 16 consolidate support functions, optimize its supply chain and procurement structure, leverage its research and development and services across a larger base, and reduce its worldwide workforce by approximately 9,000, all of which is expected to create opportunities to achieve cost savings and revenue synergies and to achieve other synergistic benefits. Delays encountered by us or Alcatel-Lucent in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Although we expect significant benefits to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance that we will actually realize these anticipated benefits. Achieving the benefits of the Merger will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of us and Alcatel-Lucent and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we and Alcatel-Lucent will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively affect our operations. Uncertainties Associated With the Merger May Cause a Loss of Employees and May Otherwise Materially Adversely Affect Our Future Business and Operations. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the Merger. This may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the Merger. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to attract or retain key employees to the same extent we had been able to attract or retain employees in the past. Technological innovation is important to our success, and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of these types of employees is vigorous. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to attract and retain these employees. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry with Many Participants. Our Failure to Compete Effectively Would Harm Our Business. We operate in a highly competitive environment in our business, competing on the basis of product offerings, technical capabilities, quality, service and pricing. Competition for new service providers and enterprise customers as well as for new infrastructure deployments is particularly intense and increasingly focused on price. We believe we offer customers and prospective customers many benefits in addition to competitive pricing, including strong support and integrated services for quality, technologically-advanced products; however, in some situations, we may not be able to compete effectively if purchasing decisions are based solely on the lowest price. We have a number of competitors, some of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with global service providers. Some of our competitors have very low cost structures, support from governments in their home countries, or both. In addition, new competitors may enter the industry as a result of shifts in technology. These new competitors, as well as existing competitors, may include entrants from the telecom, computer software, computer services, data networking and semiconductor industries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Competitors may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or a more attractive mix of products or services, or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not match or offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to customers, prospective customers, employees and strategic partners. 17 Technology Drives Our Products and Services. If We Fail to Keep Pace with Technological Advances in Our Industry, or If We Pursue Technologies That Do Not Become Commercially Accepted, Customers May Not Buy Our Products or Use Our Services. The telecom industry uses numerous and varied technologies and large service providers often invest in several and, sometimes, incompatible technologies. The industry also demands frequent and, at times, significant technology upgrades. Furthermore, enhancing our services revenues requires that we develop and maintain leading tools. We do not have the resources to invest in all of these existing and potential technologies. As a result, we concentrate our resources on those technologies that we believe have or will achieve substantial customer acceptance and in which we have appropriate technical expertise. However, existing products often have short product life cycles characterized by declining prices over their lives. In addition, the choices we make for developing technologies may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products that we develop or if those technologies ultimately prove to be unviable. Our revenues and operating results depend to a significant extent on our ability to maintain a product portfolio and service capability that is attractive to our customers, to enhance our existing products, to continue to introduce new products successfully and on a timely basis and to develop new or enhance existing tools for our services offerings. A Small Number of Our Customers Account for a Substantial Portion of Our Revenues, and Most of Our Revenues Come from Telecommunications Service Providers. The Loss of One or More Key Customers or Reduced Spending of These Service Providers Could Significantly Reduce Our Revenues, Profitability and Cash Flow. A few large telecommunications service providers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. These customers include Verizon and Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, BellSouth and China Unicom. Verizon and Verizon Wireless together accounted for approximately 28% of our fiscal 2006 revenues, 28% of our fiscal 2005 revenues and 27% of our fiscal 2004 revenues. In addition, the telecom industry has recently experienced substantial consolidation, as evidenced by the mergers of Sprint and Nextel, Cingular and AT&T Wireless, SBC Communications and AT&T, Verizon and MCI, and the pending merger of AT&T and BellSouth. As service providers increase in size, it is possible that an even greater portion of our revenues will be attributable to a smaller number of large service providers going forward. Further, our existing customers are typically not obligated to purchase a certain amount of products or services over any period of time from us and may have the right to reduce, delay or even cancel previous orders. We, therefore, have difficulty projecting future revenues from existing customers with certainty. Although historically our customers have not made sudden supplier changes, our customers could vary, and have varied, their purchases from period to period, sometimes significantly. Combined with our reliance on a small number of large customers, this could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, our concentration of business in the telecommunications service provider industry makes us extremely vulnerable to downturns or slowdowns in spending in that industry. The Telecom Industry Fluctuates and Is Affected By Many Factors, Including Decisions By Service Providers Regarding Their Deployment of Technology and Their Timing of Purchases, as Well as Demand and Spending for Communications Services By Businesses and Consumers. After significant deterioration earlier this decade, the global telecom industry stabilized in 2004 and experienced modest growth in 2005 and 2006, as reflected in increased capital expenditures by service providers and growing demand for telecommunications services. Although we believe the overall industry will continue to grow, the rate of growth could vary geographically and across different technologies, and is subject to substantial fluctuations. The specific industry segments in which we participate may not experience the growth of other segments. In that case, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If capital investment by service providers grows at a slower pace than anticipated, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. The level of demand by service providers can change quickly and can vary over short periods of time, including from month to month. As a result of the uncertainty and variations in the telecom industry, accurately forecasting revenues, results and cash flow remains difficult. 18 In addition, our sales volume and product mix affect our gross margin. Therefore, if reduced demand for our products results in lower than expected sales volume, or we have an unfavorable product mix, we may not achieve the gross margin rate we expect, resulting in lower than expected profitability. These factors may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We Have Long-Term Sales Agreements with a Number of Our Large Customers. Some of These Agreements May Prove Unprofitable As Our Costs and Product Mix Shift Over the Lives of the Agreements. We have entered into long-term sales agreements with a number of our large customers, and we expect that we will continue to enter into long-term sales agreements in the future. Some of our existing sales agreements require us to sell products and services at fixed prices over the lives of the agreements, and some require, or may in the future require, us to sell products and services that we would otherwise discontinue, thereby diverting our resources from developing more profitable or strategically important products. The costs we incur in fulfilling some of our sales agreements may vary substantially from our initial cost estimates. Any cost overruns that we cannot pass on to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We Rely on Two Contractors to Provide Most of the Components and Products We Design. If Either of Them Fails to Deliver Quality Components and Products at Reasonable Prices on a Timely Basis, We May Not Be Able to Fulfill Our Obligations to Some of Our Customers. We generally purchase most of the wireless products we design from Celestica, and most of the wireline products we design from Solectron. If either of them fails to fulfill their obligations to us, or if we do not properly manage these arrangements, we could fail to perform some of our obligations to our customers and our customer relationships could suffer. If so, our customers may make claims against us for which we do not have sufficient recourse against our supplier. In addition, by limiting the number of our contract manufacturers, we have fewer employees with the expertise needed to manage these third party arrangements. We provide rolling forecasts to our contract manufacturers to manage product supplies, but because of market fluctuations, accurate forecasting is very difficult and we have limited ability to adjust volumes and delivery schedules to satisfy changes customers could require. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Our Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans Are Large and Have Funding Requirements That Fluctuate Based on the Performance of the Financial Markets and the Level of Interest Rates and May Be Affected By Changes in Legal Requirements. These Plans Are Also Costly, and Our Efforts to Fund or Control Those Costs May Be Ineffective. Among other compensation and benefit programs, many of our former and current employees and retirees in the U.S. participate in one or more of the following benefit plans: • management pension plan; • occupational pension plan; • postretirement health care benefit plan for former management employees; and/or • postretirement health care benefit plan for former represented employees. As described in more detail under the captions “Application of Critical Accounting Estimates — Pension and postretirement benefits” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future capital requirements and funding sources” in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations starting on pages F-6 and F-27, respectively, of Exhibit 13 to this report, the performance of the financial markets, especially the equity markets, and the level of interest rates, impact the funding obligations for these pension plans. Accordingly, the amounts we might contribute to these benefit plans are subject to considerable uncertainty. You should carefully review this discussion in Exhibit 13. Our U.S. pension plans meet the requirements of ERISA’s current funding rules, and we do not expect to make any contributions to our qualified U.S. pension plans through 2008. We are unable to provide an estimate of future funding requirements beyond fiscal 2008 for the pension plans. However, based on our actuarial projections we believe that it is unlikely that any required contributions would have a material effect on our liquidity during fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2011. 19 Recent legislative changes, in the form of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “PPA”), impact the funding requirements for our U.S. pension plans. The PPA alters the manner in which liabilities and asset values are determined for the purpose of calculating required pension contributions and the timing and manner in which required contributions to under-funded pension plans would be made. These changes could significantly increase the funding requirements for our U.S. management pension plan and reduce excess pension assets that could be available to fund retiree health care benefits. Accordingly, the amounts we might contribute to these benefit plans in the future are subject to considerable uncertainty. The PPA also provides for what is called a “collectively bargained” transfer under Section 420 of the Internal Revenue Code, under which pension assets in excess of 120% of pension plan funding obligations would be available to fund health care costs for our formerly represented retirees. Together with our unions, we are proposing additional changes to Section 420 as technical corrections, which would facilitate our ability to provide a collectively bargained level of retiree health care benefits by using such excess pension assets. With the adoption of the technical corrections that we are pursuing, we believe it is likely that almost all of the health care funding required for formerly represented retirees (assuming the present level and structure of benefits) could be addressed through Section 420 transfers based on current actuarial assumptions. However, no assurances can be given that we will be successful in our efforts to obtain these technical corrections. We have amended our collective bargaining agreement to extend to June 30, 2007 the time period within which the additional changes we are seeking to the PPA must be obtained. If, by that date, the legislation imposes constraints that would significantly impair our ability to fund retiree health care costs using excess pension assets, we would have the ability, at our sole discretion beginning on January 1, 2008, to adjust the level of subsidy we provide for formerly represented retiree health care. We have also taken some steps, and expect that we will take additional actions over time, to reduce the overall cost of our retiree health care benefit plans and the share of these costs borne by us, consistent with legal requirements and our collective bargaining obligations. However, the rate of cost increases may exceed our actions to reduce these costs. In addition, as described in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13, the reduction or elimination of retiree health care benefits has led to lawsuits against us. Any other initiatives that we undertake to control or reduce costs may lead to additional claims against us. Many of Our Current and Planned Products Are Highly Complex and May Contain Defects or Errors That Are Detected Only After Deployment in Telecommunications Networks. If That Occurs, Our Reputation May Be Harmed. Our products are highly complex, and there is no assurance that our extensive product development, manufacturing and integration testing is or will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could affect customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we might have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that are shipped. Most of these occurrences can be rectified without incident, as has generally been the case historically. However, the occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by customers or customers’ end-users and other losses to us, or to our customers or end-users. These occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Rapid Changes to Existing Regulations or Technical Standards or the Implementation of New Ones for Products and Services Not Previously Regulated Could Be Disruptive, Time-Consuming and Costly to Us. We develop many of our products and services based on existing regulations and technical standards, our interpretation of unfinished technical standards or the lack of such regulations and standards. Changes to existing regulations and technical standards, or the implementation of new regulations and technical standards relating to products and services not previously regulated, could adversely affect our development efforts, by increasing compliance costs and causing delay. Demand for those products and services could also decline. 20 We Are Involved in Lawsuits, Which, If Determined against Us, Could Require Us to Pay Substantial Damages. We are defendants in various lawsuits. These lawsuits include such matters as commercial disputes, claims regarding intellectual property, product discontinuance, asbestos claims, labor, employment and benefit claims, shareowner litigation and others. For a discussion of some of these legal proceedings, you should read Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this report. We cannot predict the extent to which any of the pending or future actions will be resolved in our favor, or whether significant monetary judgments will be rendered against us. Any material losses resulting from these claims could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. If We Fail to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Our Business and Prospects May Be Harmed. Intellectual property rights, such as patents, are vital to our business, and developing new products and technologies that are unique to us is critical to our success. We have numerous U.S. and foreign patents and numerous pending patents. However, we cannot predict whether any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or whether such patents will be challenged by third parties. Moreover, our competitors may already have applied for patents that, once issued, could prevail over our patent rights, or otherwise limit our ability to sell our products. Our competitors also may attempt to design around our patents or copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. In addition, patent applications that we have currently pending may not be granted. If we do not receive the patents that we seek or if other problems arise with our intellectual property, our competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit our future revenues and harm our prospects. We Are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims, Which Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses or Prevent Us from Selling Certain Products. From time to time, we receive notices or claims from third parties of potential infringement in connection with products or services. We also may receive such notices or claims when we attempt to license our intellectual property to others. Intellectual property litigation can be costly and time-consuming and can divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. A successful claim by a third party of patent or other intellectual property infringement by us could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or force us to pay significant damages and could even require us to stop selling certain products. Further, if one of our important patents or other intellectual property rights is invalidated, we may suffer losses of licensing revenues and be prevented from attempting to block others, including competitors, from using the related technology. We Are Subject to Environmental, Health and Safety Laws that Restrict Our Operations. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, including laws relating to the use, disposal and clean-up of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. In the U.S., these laws often require parties to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Although we believe our reserves are adequate to cover our environmental liabilities, factors such as the discovery of additional contaminants, the extent of required remediation and the imposition of additional clean-up obligations could cause our capital expenditures and other expenses relating to remediation activities to exceed the amount reflected in our environmental reserve and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future liabilities, cause the suspension of production, restrict our ability to utilize facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment or incur other significant expenses. 21 Our Business Requires a Significant Amount of Cash, and We May Require Additional Sources of Funds if Our Sources of Liquidity Are Unavailable or Insufficient to Fund Our Operations. Our working capital requirements and cash flows have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: • the level of sales; • the collection of receivables; • the timing and size of capital expenditures; • costs associated with potential restructuring actions; and • customer financing obligations. In order to finance our business, we expect that we will use available cash and investments and will have access to a syndicated credit facility allowing for the drawdown of significant levels of debt if required. However, we expect that our ability to draw on this facility will be conditioned upon compliance with financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with the financial covenants required by our lenders at all times in the future. We may need to secure additional sources of funding if the syndicated credit facility and borrowings are not available or are insufficient to finance our business. We cannot provide any assurance that such funding will be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we were to incur high levels of debt, this would require a larger portion of operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as research and development expenses and capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Alcatel-Lucent’s expected short-term debt rating will allow us limited access to the commercial paper market, although the commercial paper market may not be available to us on acceptable terms and conditions. Alcatel-Lucent’s ability to have access to the capital markets and its financing costs will be, in part, dependent on Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or similar agencies’ ratings with respect to its debt and corporate credit and their outlook with respect to Alcatel-Lucent’s business. Alcatel-Lucent’s expected short-term and long-term credit ratings, as well as any possible future lowering of its ratings, may result in higher financing costs and reduced access to the capital markets. We cannot provide any assurance that Alcatel-Lucent’s credit ratings will be sufficient to give us access to the capital markets on acceptable terms, or that once obtained, such credit ratings will not be reduced by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or similar rating agencies. Credit and Commercial Risks and Exposures Could Increase If the Financial Condition of Our Customers Declines. A substantial portion of our sales are to customers in the telecom industry. These customers may require their suppliers to provide extended payment terms, direct loans or other forms of financial support as a condition to obtaining commercial contracts. We expect that we may provide or commit to financing where appropriate for our business. Our ability to arrange or provide financing for our customers will depend on a number of factors, including our and Alcatel-Lucent’s credit ratings, levels of available credit, and abilities to sell off commitments on acceptable terms. More generally, we expect that we will routinely enter into long-term contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time. Pursuant to these contracts, we may deliver products and services representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any significant payment from the customer. As a result of the financing that may be provided to customers and our commercial risk exposure under long-term contracts, our business could be adversely affected if the financial condition of our customers erodes. Over the past few years, certain of our customers have filed with the courts seeking protection under the bankruptcy or reorganization laws of the applicable 22 jurisdiction, or have experienced financial difficulties. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We Have Significant International Operations and a Significant Amount of Our Sales Are Made in Emerging Markets and Regions. In addition to the currency risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks arising out of the economy, the political outlook and the language and cultural barriers in countries where we have operations or do business. We expect to continue to focus on expanding business in emerging markets in Asia, Africa and Latin America. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with several risks that are more significant than in other countries. These risks include economies that may be dependent on only a few products and are therefore subject to significant fluctuations, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, possible exchange controls, unstable governments, privatization actions or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. We are required to move products from one country to another and provide services in one country from a base in another. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. An Impairment of Goodwill or Other Intangible Assets Would Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition or Results of Operation. We have a significant amount of intangible assets including goodwill and other acquired intangibles, development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed and internal use software development costs as of September 30, 2006. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually, or more often, if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment loss may have been incurred. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events such as product discontinuances, plant closures, product dispositions or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Historically, we have recognized significant impairment charges due to various reasons, including some of those noted above as well as potential restructuring actions or adverse market conditions that are either specific to the telecom industry or general in nature. As a result, additional impairment charges may be incurred in the future that could be significant and that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 