Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information about risks and uncertainties that may affect us or our business, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. If any of the following events, described as risks, actually occur, either alone or taken together, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should not invest in our securities if you cannot bear the economic risk of your investment for an indefinite period of time and cannot afford to lose your entire investment. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry As a result of our historical lack of financial liquidity, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our planned operations or be able to continue as a going concern, and, as a result, we will need to raise additional capital in the future in order to continue operating our business and developing new products and technologies, which capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We do not currently believe that our existing cash resources are sufficient to meet our anticipated needs over the next twelve months. The factors below raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of recurring losses, and as of July 31, 2013 we have incurred a cumulative net loss of approximately $70.2 million. As of July 31, 2013, we had $32,000 in cash and cash equivalents, $2,153,000 of current liabilities, including $1,134,000 in accounts payable. During the year ended July 31, 2013, our cash outflows for operating activities and for investments in patents and fixed assets were $4.1 million. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others: • the acceptance of, and demand for, our products: • the timing and success of executing our business strategy; • our success and that of our strategic partners in developing and selling products derived from our technology; • the costs of further developing our existing, and developing new, products or technologies; • the extent to which we invest in new technology, testing and product development; • the timing of vendor payments and the collection of receivables, among other factors affecting our working capital; • the exercise of outstanding options or warrants to acquire our common stock; • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we participate, if any; and • the costs associated with the continued operation, and any future growth, of our business. Until we can generate significant cash from operations, we expect to continue to fund our operations with the proceeds of offerings of our equity and debt securities. However, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available when needed or that, if available, financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds from the issuance of equity securities, substantial dilution to our existing stockholders would likely result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Further, any contracts or license arrangements we enter into to raise funds may require us to relinquish our rights to our products or technology, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any such contracts or license arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all. Having insufficient funds may require us to delay or scale back our marketing, distribution and other commercialization activities or cease our operations altogether. The above circumstances, along with our history and near term forecast of incurring significant net losses and negative operating cash flows, raise substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern. If we do not obtain additional capital from external sources, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our planned operations or be able to continue as a going concern. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We had a loss of $7.7 million for the year ended July 31, 2013, and a loss of $8.9 million for the year ended July 31, 2012. As of July 31, 2013, we have incurred a cumulative net loss of approximately $70.2 million. Although we expect to continue to 11 Table of Contents have losses in future periods, we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses or when or if we will become profitable, and it is possible we will never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. None of our existing agreements contain provisions that guarantee us any minimum revenues. If the penetration into the marketplace of silver dihydrogen citrate, or SDC, and SDC-based products is unsuccessful, revenue growth is slower than anticipated or operating expenses exceed expectations, it may take an unforeseen period of time to achieve or maintain profitability and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Slower than anticipated revenue growth could force us to reduce research, testing, development and marketing of our technologies, and/or force us to reduce the size and scope of our operations, to sell or license our technologies to third parties, or to cease operations altogether. The risks associated with our business may be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to other consequences, these periods may be accompanied by decreased consumer and institutional spending in general, as well as decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, our products. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a result, given the current weakness and uncertainties in the U.S. and in certain overseas economies, we expect that our business will continue to be adversely affected for so long as, and to the extent that, such adverse economic conditions and uncertainty exist. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights We expect that we will need to increase our liquidity and capital resources in our current fiscal year and in future periods. We have a history of raising funds through offerings of our common stock, and we may in the future raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Additionally, any debt financing we obtain may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens on our assets, pay dividends on or redeem our capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us or relinquish potentially valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies. We may be required in future collaborations to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to our products or license intellectual property that enable licensees to develop competing products in order to complete any such transaction. As a result of the reverse stock split that we recently effected, the number of our outstanding shares of common stock was reduced at a ratio of one-for-eight, while the number of our authorized shares of common and preferred stock did not change. Accordingly, our authorized common stock remains 100,000,000 shares. In addition to capital raising activities, other possible business and financial uses for our authorized common stock include, without limitation, future stock splits, acquiring other companies, businesses or products in exchange for shares of common stock, issuing shares of our common stock to partners in connection with strategic alliances, attracting and retaining employees by the issuance of additional securities under our various equity compensation plans, satisfying any debt we may have by issuing equity securities, or other transactions and corporate purposes that our Board of Directors, or Board, deems are in our best interest. Additionally, shares of common stock could be used for anti-takeover purposes or to delay or prevent changes in control or management of the Company. For example, without further stockholder approval, our Board could approve the sale of shares of common stock in a private transaction to purchasers who may oppose a takeover or favor our current Board. We cannot provide assurances that any issuances of common stock will be consummated on favorable terms or at all, that they will enhance stockholder value, or that they will not adversely affect our business or the trading price of our common stock. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board could also authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock on terms determined by the Board. If any common or preferred stock is issued, the interests of holders of our common stock could be diluted, and shares of preferred stock could be issued in a financing in which investors purchase preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges that may be superior to those of the common stock, and the market price of our common stock could decline. If outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised, the interests of our stockholders could be diluted As of July 31, 2013, in addition to 12,569,503 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, we had 443,755 shares reserved for issuance under equity compensation plans for vested and unvested stock options. We also had 1,434,121 shares reserved for issuance on the exercise of outstanding warrants. 12 Table of Contents We may elect to reduce the exercise price of outstanding warrants as a means of providing additional financing to us. The exercise of options and warrants, and the sale of shares underlying such options or warrants, could have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock, including the price that an investor could obtain for their shares. Investors may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their investment upon the exercise of options and warrants currently outstanding, as well as options and warrants that may be granted or issued in the future. Because we are an early stage company, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects and our financial results may fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to fall Since acquiring the rights to our SDC technology, we have encountered and likely will continue to encounter risks and difficulties associated with introducing or establishing our products in rapidly evolving markets. These risks include the following, among others: • we may not increase our sales to our existing customers and/or expand our customer base; • we may not succeed in materially penetrating markets and applications for our SDC technology; • our new sales and marketing strategy, which is built on our direct control of the sales and marketing of our products, may not be successful; • we or our partners and/or distributors may not establish or maintain effective marketing programs to create product awareness or brand identity; • our partners’ and/or distributors’ goals and objectives may not be consistent with our own; • we may not attract and retain key business development, technical and management personnel; • we may not maintain existing, or obtain new, regulatory approvals for our technology and products; • we may not succeed in locating strategic partners and licensees of our technology; • we may not effectively manage our anticipated growth, if any; and • we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we face. In addition, because of our limited operating history and the early stage of market development for our SDC technology, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. Forecasting future revenues is difficult, especially because our technology is novel, and market acceptance of our products could change rapidly. In addition, our customers and potential customers in the foreseeable future are highly concentrated. Fluctuations in the buying patterns of our current or potential customers could significantly affect the level of our sales on a period to period basis. As a result, our financial results could fluctuate to an extent that may adversely affect our stock price. There are a number of other factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate unexpectedly, including product sales, the mix of product sales, the cost of product sales, our ability for any reason to be able to meet demand, the achievement and timing of research and development and regulatory milestones, changes in expenses, including non-cash expenses such as the fair value of stock options granted, and manufacturing or supply issues, among other factors. A loss of one or more of our key customers could adversely affect our business. From time to time, one or a small number of our customers may represent a significant percentage of our revenue. Our three largest customers accounted for 69% of our revenue for year ending July 31, 2013. One customer accounted for 46%, another for 12%, and the other for 11%. Although we have agreements with many of our customers, these agreements typically do not prohibit customers from purchasing products and services from competitors. A decision by any of our major customers to significantly reduce the amount of product ordered or license fees paid, or their failure or inability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner, or at all, could have a significant adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on our core SDC technology and if our efforts to achieve or maintain market acceptance of our core SDC technology are not successful, we are unlikely to attain profitability. We have and are currently focusing substantially all of our time and financial resources in the development and commercialization of our core SDC technology. We believe SDC has applications in multiple industries and we expect that sales of SDC and SDC-based products will constitute a substantial portion, or all, of our revenues in future periods. Any material decrease in the overall level of sales or expected sales of, or the prices for, SDC or SDC-based products, whether as a result of competition, change in customer demand, or any other factor, would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are marketing our antimicrobial silver ion technology to industrial and consumer markets. These technologies and the products that incorporate them have not yet been accepted into the marketplace, and may never be accepted. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain product sales or other forms of revenue over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost-effective or otherwise render our products less attractive or obsolete. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to intense competition. Our SDC-based products compete in highly competitive markets dominated by prominent chemical and pharmaceutical companies. Most of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than we have, and have a greater number of products on the market and greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors already have well established brands and distribution capabilities, and in some cases are able to leverage the sale of other products with more favorable terms for products competing with our own. We also have significantly fewer employees than virtually all of our competitors. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are for large chemical and pharmaceutical companies to consolidate into a smaller number of very large entities, which further concentrates financial, technical and market strength and increases competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete with these very large entities for the same markets and/or products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a share of those markets. It is also possible that developments by our competitors will make our technologies or products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability, and the ability of our distributors and other partners, to develop brand recognition and novel distribution methods, and to displace existing, established and future products in our relevant target markets. We, or our distributors and partners, may not be successful in doing so, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited sales, marketing and product distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. While we previously relied primarily on product distribution arrangements and/or sales and marketing services provided by third parties, we have now developed and obtained registration by the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, of our proprietary brand, PURE® Hard Surface disinfectant and food contact surface sanitizer, and have resumed direct control of our sales of this product through a restructuring of our sales strategy and operations. Our new sales and marketing strategy requires that we enact various operational changes in our business, including making significant investments in our own sales and marketing organization. We intend to market and sell our PURE® Hard Surface and related SDC-based products into consumer, commercial and institutional markets through both traditional and alternative distribution channels. We have commenced the launch of a multi-channel national sales program, which involves our development of an internal team of industry sales experts to manage each of our key channels and our deployment of contract sales representatives within each of those channels. Our current sales and marketing strategies and programs may not be successful, and we may not be able to establish the sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities necessary to directly control and manage these aspects of our operations. If we are not able to successfully sell, market and distribute these products directly, we may seek to establish product distribution arrangements with third parties, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may rely on third parties to develop SDC-based products, and they may not do so successfully or diligently. We may rely in part, on third parties to whom we license rights to our technology to develop and commercialize products containing SDC for many of the applications for which we believe SDC-based products have, or may have, market opportunities. Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. In such arrangements, we have relied, and expect in the future to rely, on the third party to fund and direct product development activities and appropriate regulatory filings. Any of these third parties may not be able to successfully develop such SDC-based products due to, among other factors, a lack of capital, a lack of appropriate diligence, insufficient devotion to sales efforts, a change in the evaluation by the third party of the market potential for SDC-based products, technical failures, and poorer than expected results from testing or trial use of any products that may be developed. If the third parties on which we rely are not successful in such development activities, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new applications of our SDC technology, or if such efforts are delayed, our operating results will suffer. In addition to its use on hard surfaces, we are pursuing potential applications of our SDC technology as a broad-spectrum antimicrobial for use in direct contact processing aid where it is applied as a wash for produce, meat and poultry as an intervention to prevent or kill various food-borne pathogens. Any product that may be developed in these fields may be delayed or may never achieve regulatory approval or be commercialized. Delays in achieving regulatory approvals for particular applications of our products could significantly impact our product development costs. If indications are commercialized, we may not receive a share of future revenues that provides an adequate return on our historical or future investment. 14 Table of Contents If we are not able to manage any growth we achieve effectively, we may not become profitable. If our efforts to achieve and maintain market acceptance of our SDC technology are successful, we will need to expand our business operations. We may not have sufficient resources to do so. If we invest in additional infrastructure, we may not be effective in expanding our operations and our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support any such expansion. In addition, we would need to provide additional sales and support services to our partners, potentially in multiple markets, which we may not be able to do. Failure to properly manage increased customer demands, if any, could result in a material adverse effect on customer satisfaction, our ability to meet our contractual obligations, and our operating results. The industries in which we operate are heavily regulated and we may be unable to compete effectively. We are focused on the marketing and continued development of our SDC antimicrobial technology. We believe that products derived from our SDC technology, or products that may be derived from our SDC technology in future periods, require or will require approval by government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or in foreign markets. Complying with applicable government regulations and obtaining necessary approvals can be, and has historically been, time consuming and expensive, due in part, we believe, to the novel nature of our technology. Regulatory review could involve delays or other actions adversely affecting the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. While we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any pending or future regulatory review processes or the extent or impact of any future changes to legislation or regulations affecting review processes, we expect such processes to remain time consuming and expensive as we, or our partners, apply for approval to make new or additional efficacy claims for current products or to market new product formulations. Obtaining approvals for new SDC-based products in the U.S., or in markets outside the U.S., could take several years, or may never be accomplished. SDC is a platform technology rather than a single use applied technology. As such, products developed from the platform may fall under the jurisdiction of multiple U.S. and international regulatory agencies. Our disinfectant and sanitizer products are regulated in the U.S. by the EPA. In addition to the EPA, each of the 50 United States has its own government agencies that regulate the sale or shipment of our products into their state. We have obtained registration for these products from the EPA and all states into which such products are currently marketed and sold. We are required to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and pay ongoing fees in order to maintain such registrations. We may not be able to maintain these registrations in the future, which may eliminate our continued ability to market and sell our products in some or all parts of the U.S. We also may not be able to obtain necessary registrations with the EPA and applicable states for other SDC disinfectant and sanitizer products that we or our partners may develop, which would limit our ability to sell any such products in the future. Some potential applications of SDC, such as those aimed at healthcare, veterinary and certain food preparation markets, may require approval of other government agencies prior to marketing or sale in the U.S. or in foreign markets, such as the U.S Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or the United States Department of Agriculture, or USDA. Obtaining FDA and/or USDA approval is a complicated and expensive process and such approvals may never be obtained for any SDC products. If FDA and/or USDA approvals are obtained, the approvals may limit the uses for which SDC products may be marketed such that they may not be profitable to us, and the applicable products would be subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA and/or USDA that could lead to withdrawal or limitation of any product approvals. We intend to fund and manage certain of our EPA-regulated product development internally, in conjunction with engaging regulatory consultants and partnering with other third parties. We have partnered, or intend to partner, with third parties who are seeking, or intend to seek, approvals to market SDC-based products in markets outside the U.S., and with other third parties who are developing FDA-regulated SDC-based products who, upon such development, would seek FDA approvals of such products. Our ability to market and sell our products is dependent on our and our partners’ ability to obtain and maintain required registrations and approvals of applicable regulatory agencies. Failure by our partners or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines or the withdrawal of approval for us or our partners and distributors to market our products in some or all jurisdictions or for certain indications, which could cause us to be unable to successfully commercialize SDC or otherwise achieve revenues from sales of such products. We are subject to substantial regulation related to quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, and our failure to comply with applicable quality standards could affect our ability to commercialize SDC products. The EPA and other applicable U.S. and foreign government agencies regulate our and our partners’ systems and processes for manufacturing SDC-based products. These regulations require that we and our partners observe “good manufacturing practices” in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness. Failure by us or our partners to comply with current or future government regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls or related field actions, product shortages, and/or delays in product manufacturing, any or all of which could cause 15 Table of Contents significant cost to us. Further, efficacy or safety concerns and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products or those of our partners could lead to product recalls, fines, withdrawal of approvals, and/or declining sales, any or all of which could result in our failure to successfully commercialize SDC or otherwise achieve revenue growth. Pricing and supply issues may have a material impact on our margins and our ability to supply our customers. All of the supply ingredients used to manufacture our products are available from multiple suppliers. However, commodity prices for some ingredients can vary significantly and the margins that we are able to generate could decline if prices rise. For example, both silver and citric acid prices have been volatile in recent periods. In addition to such commodities, for finished products we also rely on producers of specialized packaging inputs such as bottles and labels. Due to their specialized nature, the supply of such inputs can be periodically constrained and result in additional costs to obtain these items, which may in turn inhibit our ability to supply products to our customers. We are generally unable to raise our product prices to our customers, partners and distributors quickly to maintain our margins, and significant price increases for key inputs could therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Price increases can also result in lost sales, and any inability to supply our customers’ orders can lead to lost future sales to such customers. While we expect to be the sole source supplier of SDC concentrate, in future periods we may use third parties to blend, package and provide fulfillment activities for our finished products. We expect that our margins would be reduced by using such third parties, and our ability to maintain product quality may not be as extensive or effective as when we produce these products in our own facility(ies). Any quality control issues could lead to product recalls and/or the loss of future sales, which would reduce our revenues and/or profits. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety or efficacy of our products, our sales may be harmed. If concerns should arise about the safety or efficacy of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for those products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not those claims are supported by applicable law. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales and profitability may decline. Our sole manufacturing facility and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The facility may be affected by natural or man-made disasters and in the event our facility or our manufacturing equipment were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to set up alternative production capacity or rely on third party manufacturers that may not match our quality standards or be able to meet customer requirements and to which we would have to disclose our trade secrets. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and may not address the marketing and goodwill consequences of our potential inability to provide products to meet customers’ requirements. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products. Our manufacture, use and sale of SDC-based products may subject us to lawsuits relating to the validity and infringement of patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. If we are found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property or proprietary rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in our business and our obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. If the rights holders are willing to permit us to continue to use their intellectual property rights, it may be necessary for us to enter into license arrangements with unfavorable terms and pay substantial amounts in royalty and other license fees. Either having to cease use or pay such fees could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which could make us much less competitive in our industry and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become subject to product liability claims. As a business that manufactures and markets products for use by consumers and institutions, we may become liable for any 16 Table of Contents damage caused by our products, whether used in the manner intended or not. Regardless of merit or potential outcome, product liability claims against us may result in, among other effects, the inability to commercialize our products, impairment of our business reputation, and distraction of management’s attention from our primary business. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims we could incur substantial liabilities. Although we maintain general and product liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims and may not be adequate to indemnify for liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could harm our business and operating results. Litigation or the actions of regulatory authorities may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur major expenditures and would distract our management. For example, lawsuits against us or our officers or directors by employees, former employees, stockholders, partners, customers, or others, or actions taken by regulatory authorities, could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Such lawsuits and actions are not uncommon, and we may not be able to resolve such disputes or actions on terms favorable to us, and there may not be sufficient capital resources available to defend such actions effectively, or at all. Maintaining compliance with our obligations as a public company may strain our resources and distract management, and if we do not remain compliant our stock price may be adversely affected. Our common stock is registered under the Exchange Act. It is therefore subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. Both the U.S. Congress and the SEC continue to issue new and proposed rules, and complying with existing and new rules has caused, and will continue to cause, us to devote significant financial and other resources to maintain our status as a public company. These regulatory costs and requirements will continue to increase our losses in future periods, and we expect that an increasing amount of management time and effort will be needed to meet our regulatory obligations. In addition, in April 2008 we obtained a listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, adding the additional cost and administrative burden of maintaining such a listing. Such costs significantly increased during the period between September 2011 and September 2012 due to a series of notices and a lengthy appeal process in connection with the potential delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market. However, NASDAQ delisted us and suspended trading in our securities effective with the open of business on Friday, May 17, 2013 as a result of our determination that we would be unable to evidence compliance with the $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market by June 18, 2013. On May 17, 2013 our common stock began trading on the OTCQB marketplace. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate our internal control systems and that management report on and attest to the adequacy of our internal controls. Recent SEC pronouncements suggest that in the next several years we may be required to report our financial results using new International Financial Reporting Standards, replacing GAAP, which would require us to make significant investments in training, hiring, consulting and information technology, among other investments. All of these and other reporting requirements and heightened corporate governance obligations that we face, or may face in the future, will further increase the cost to us, perhaps substantially, of remaining compliant with our obligations under the Exchange Act and other applicable laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. In order to meet these incremental obligations, we will need to invest in our corporate and accounting infrastructure and systems, and acquire additional services from third party auditors and advisors. As a result of these requirements and investments, we may incur significant additional expenses and may suffer a significant diversion of management’s time. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to meet these obligations in a timely manner. If we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. Any such actions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, perhaps significantly. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed from time to time by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports and other securities filings of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements. The SEC is required, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years, although an SEC review may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply, in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in our filings as a result of any SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to build and integrate our new management team, our business could be harmed. As previously announced on our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 20, 2013 and as described elsewhere in this Report, on August 13, 2013, Michael L. Krall, Donna Singer, and Dennis Atchley resigned all positions respectively held by them as officers of the Company and as members of the Board. Mr. Krall previously served as our Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer and on the Board. Ms. Singer served as our Executive Vice President and as a member of the Board and Mr. Atchley served as Corporate Secretary. Simultaneously with the resignations, Dave Pfanzelter was appointed by the Board to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Peter C. Wulff was appointed by the Board to serve as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Corporate Secretary and Gary D. Cohee was appointed by the Board to serve as a member of the Board. Subsequently on September 10, 2013, the Board appointed Henry R. Lambert to serve as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board. In connection with the hiring of Henry R. Lambert to serve as our Chief Executive Officer, Dave Pfanzelter resigned his position as our Interim Chief Executive Officer, but continues to serve as a member of the Board. In October 2013, we appointed three additional members to the Board; Dr. David Theno, Jr., Craig Culver and William Otis. Our success depends largely on the execution of our business strategy by our management team. Management will be evaluating how to best execute our near-term strategy to drive customer adoption in the food industry by addressing food safety solutions across the supply chain in order to prevent or mitigate food contamination or the potential for food-borne illness – with specific customer focus in foodservice providers, food processors and food manufacturers. However, we cannot assure you that management will succeed in driving customer adoption in the food industry or generally execute on our business strategy in the near-term or at all, which could harm our business and financial prospects. Further, integrating new management into existing operations may be challenging. If we are unable to effectively integrate our new management, our operations and prospects could be harmed. We depend on key personnel for our continued operations and future success, and a loss of certain key personnel could significantly hinder our ability to move forward with our business plan. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time without notice and without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on our executive officers or other employees. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to recruit qualified personnel able to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on terms acceptable to either us or to any qualified candidate. Because competition for highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our potential growth. To successfully meet our objectives, we must continue to attract and retain highly qualified business development and bioengineering personnel with specialized skill sets focused on the industries in which we compete, or intend to compete. Competition for qualified business development and bioengineering personnel can be intense. Our ability to meet our business development objectives will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand our technology and business. In addition, it takes time for our new personnel to become productive and to learn our business. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified business development and bioengineering personnel, it will be difficult for us to sell our products or to license our technology or to achieve or maintain regulatory approvals, and we may experience a shortfall in revenue and not achieve our anticipated, or any, growth. We have recently had significant changes to the composition of our Board of Directors. Effective July 9, 2012, we entered a settlement agreement in connection with the termination of certain litigation and the withdrawal of a proxy solicitation in opposition to our slate of nominees for election as directors on our Board at our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders held on July 31, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of that settlement agreement, we are obligated to make good faith efforts to replace one member of our Board with a new independent director and add to our Board an additional independent director within 12 months after the date of our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, one of our independent directors and a member of our Audit Committee and our Compensation Committee, Gregory Barnhill, unexpectedly died on September 14, 2012. 18 Table of Contents Effective February 6, 2013, the Board appointed Dave Pfanzelter to serve as a director of the Company. Effective May 17, 2013, the Board appointed Mr. Pfanzelter as Chairman of the Board. On August 13, 2013, Michael L. Krall, Donna Singer, and Dennis Brovarone resigned as members of the Board. Subsequently on September 10, 2013, the Board appointed Henry R. Lambert to serve as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board. In October 2013, the Board appointed three additional members to the Board; Dr. David Theno, Craig Culver and Bill Otis. Following such resignations and appointments, the Board consists of six directors, four of whom are independent within the meaning of SEC rules. The transition in the composition of our Board and its committees may result in inefficiencies in Board activity, disagreements regarding our business models or other operational strategies, and disruptions to our business, which may have an adverse effect on our business strategy and results of operations. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management. From time to time we may consider engaging in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases and out-licensing or in-licensing of products, product candidates or technologies. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, these transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including, among others, exposure to unknown liabilities, disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention in order to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies, difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, and inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Accordingly, although we may not choose to undertake or may not be able to successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do undertake or complete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may invest or spend our cash in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a significant return. Our management has considerable discretion in the use of our cash. Our cash may be used for purposes that do not increase our operating results or market value. Until the cash is used, it may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or that may lose value. The failure of our management to invest or spend our cash effectively could result in unfavorable returns and uncertainty about our prospects, each of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to utilize all, or any, of our tax net operating loss carry-forwards and our future after-tax earnings, if any, could be reduced. At July 31, 2013, we had federal and California tax net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $75.5 million and $66.8 million, respectively. Utilization of these net operating loss carry-forwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as well as similar state provisions. These ownership changes may limit the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups. Since our formation, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions (both before and after our initial public offering in 1996) which, combined with the purchasing stockholders’ subsequent disposition of those shares, may have resulted in such an ownership change, or could result in an ownership change in the future based upon subsequent disposition. While we believe that we have not experienced an ownership change, the pertinent tax rules related thereto are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and thus the applicable taxing authorities may take an alternative position. Our current federal tax loss carry-forwards began expiring in the year ended July 31, 2011 and, unless previously utilized, will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2032. The balance of our current federal net operating loss carry-forwards will expire between July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2032. Our California tax loss carry-forwards will begin to expire in the year ending July 31, 2014, and will completely expire in the year ending July 31, 2032. If we are unable to earn sufficient profits to utilize the carry-forwards by these dates, they will no longer be available to offset future profits, if any. We are subject to tax audits by various tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions. From time to time we may be audited by tax authorities to whom we are subject. Any assessment resulting from such audits, if any, could result in material changes to our past or future taxable income, tax payable or deferred tax assets, and could require us to pay penalties and interest that could materially adversely affect our financial results. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain, maintain or defend the patent and other intellectual property rights relating to our technology, we or our collaborators and distributors may not be able to develop and market proprietary products based on our technology, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We rely and expect in the future to continue to rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright protections, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology and business. Legal protections of our intellectual property and proprietary rights afford only limited protection. For instance, we currently own nine U.S. patents related to our SDC technology. The lives of these patents, and any patents that we may obtain in the future, are not indefinite, and the value to us of some or all of our patents may be limited by their terms. Further, although we have a number of U.S. and international patent applications pending, some or all of those applications may not result in issued patents, and the intellectual property claims therein would be unprotected. Additionally, obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on our compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by government patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Furthermore, the patent positions of bioscience companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. From time to time, U.S. and other policymakers have proposed reforming the patent laws and regulations of their countries. In September 2011, after years of Congressional debate regarding patent reform legislation, President Obama signed into law the America Invents Act (the Act) considered by many to be the most substantial revision of U.S. patent law since 1952. The Act’s various provisions will go into effect over an 18-month period. The Act changes the current “first-to-invent” system to a system that awards a patent to the “first-inventor-to-file” for an application for a patentable invention. This change alters the pool of available materials that can be used to challenge patents and eliminates the ability to rely on prior research work in order to lay claim to patent rights. Disputes as to whether the first filer is in fact the true inventor will be resolved through newly implemented derivation proceedings. The Act also creates mechanisms to allow challenges to newly issued patents in the patent office in post-grant proceedings and new inter partes reexamination proceedings. Although many of the changes bring U.S. law into closer harmony with European and other national patent laws, the new bases and procedures may make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents, which could result in increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. The changes may also make it harder to challenge third-party patents and place greater importance on being the first inventor to file a patent application on an invention. In addition, to the extent that we operate internationally, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As stated above, many countries have a “first-to-file” trademark registration system, which may prevent us from registering or using our trademarks in certain countries if third parties have previously filed applications to register or have registered the same or similar trademarks. Additionally, changes in the patent and/or trademark laws or interpretations of such laws in the U.S. or other countries could diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. Moreover, our competitors may develop competing technologies that are not covered by the claims of, and therefore do not infringe upon, our issued patents, which could render our patents less valuable to us. If certain of our proprietary rights cannot be, or are not sufficiently, protected by patent and trademark registrations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to commercialize or license our technology and products. Our own efforts to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may also be insufficient. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, including without limitation through confidentiality and other similar contractual restrictions, our means of protecting such rights may not be adequate and unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our proprietary technology, obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise misappropriate our intellectual property. In addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. It is possible that, despite our efforts, competitors or others will create and use products, adopt service names similar to our service names or otherwise violate or misappropriate our proprietary rights. The infringement of such rights could have a material negative impact on our business and on our results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which would be expensive and could consume time and other resources. The result of any such litigation may be the court’s ruling that our patents or other intellectual property rights are invalid and/or should not be enforced. Additionally, even if the validity of such rights is upheld, 20 Table of Contents the court could refuse to stop a third party’s infringing activity on the ground that such activities do not infringe our rights. The U.S. Supreme Court has recently revised certain tests regarding granting patents and assessing the validity of patents to make it more difficult to obtain patents. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain invalid claims according to the newly revised standards. Some of our patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a reexamination proceeding, or during litigation, under the revised criteria. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our products. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a United States patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO, to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. We may rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology food, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, food, chemical or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to our Common Stock We failed to meet applicable NASDAQ Stock Market requirements and as a result we delisted our stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our businesses. On May 15, 2013, we received a letter indicating that the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) determined to delist our common stock from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Trading in our securities on NASDAQ was suspended effective with the open of business on Friday, May 17, 2013. The suspension was the result of the our determination that we would be unable to evidence compliance with the $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(b), by June 18, 2013, as required by the Panel’s decision in this matter. On May 17, 2013, our common stock began trading on the OTC Markets’ OTCQB marketplace under the ticker symbol “PURE”. We continue to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with the requirements of Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market and commencement of trading on the OTCQB Marketplace has resulted and may continue to result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our stockholders: • the liquidity of our common stock; • the market price of shares of our common stock; • our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations; • the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in shares of our common stock; • the number of market markers in shares of our common stock; • the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of shares of our common stock; and • the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock. Following the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. As a result of the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ, shares of our common stock are subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stock. Moreover, broker-dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could limit the market price and liquidity of our common stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile, which may cause investment losses for our stockholders. The price and trading volume of our common stock have historically been volatile. For example, in the twelve months through July 31, 2013, the closing market price of our common stock ranged from $0.32 per share to $3.39 per share, and the monthly trading volume varied from approximately 447,000 shares to 11,063,000 shares. The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including, among others, the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • the determination that our shares of common stock are “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our shares of common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, likely resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares of common stock; 22 Table of Contents • the sale by us of our common or preferred stock or other securities, or the anticipation of sales of such securities; • the trading volume of our common stock, particularly if such volume is light; • the trading market of our common stock; • the introduction of new products or services, or product or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights or regulatory approvals or denials; • announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or our competitors; • sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by our insiders (management and directors); • conditions and trends in our industry; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, the OTCQB, and the market for shares of novel technology and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that in some cases may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of bioscience companies’ stock have been unusually volatile in recent periods, and such volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, this volatility could adversely affect an investor’s ability to sell shares of our common stock, and/or the available price for such shares, at any given time. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. Such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Potential future sales or issuances of our common stock to raise capital, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause dilution to our current stockholders and the price of our common stock to fall. Although we are pursuing various sources of potential funding, we have historically supported our operations through the issuance of equity and expect to continue to do so in the future. Although we may not be successful in obtaining financing through equity sales on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, any such sales that do occur could result in substantial dilution to the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities to any new investors, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our available cash to fund the development and growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board deems relevant. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock, which may never occur. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us that is not approved by our Board, even if such events may be beneficial to the interests of stockholders. For example, our Board, without stockholder approval, has the authority and power to authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and such preferred stock could have voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. Further, the one-for-eight reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock that we recently effected has increased the proportion of unissued and authorized common shares to issued and outstanding common shares, which could allow our Board to issue large numbers of additional shares of our common stock that could significantly reduce the voting power of our current stockholders. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our charter documents may make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest or other change of control transaction involving the Company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction could cause stockholders to lose a substantial premium over the then-current market price of their shares. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 