Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company Operating results from oil and natural gas production may decline. In the near term, our production is totally dependent on only ten wellbores at our Giddings Field. The targeted reservoirs in the Giddings Field typically experience flush initial production, followed by steep harmonic decline rates that steadily flatten to much shallower decline rates. While the newly drilled producing wells in the Giddings Field substantially increased our net production above historic levels, without further development activities in the Giddings Field, Delhi or our other properties, or without acquisitions of producing properties, our net production of oil and natural gas will decline significantly over time, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. The types of resources we focus on have substantial operational risks. Our business plan focuses on the acquisition and development of known resources in partially depleted reservoirs, naturally fractured or low permeability reservoirs, or relatively shallow reservoirs. Shallower reservoirs usually have lower pressure, which translates into fewer natural gas volumes in place; low permeability reservoirs require more wells and substantial stimulation for development of commercial production; naturally fractured reservoirs require penetration of sufficient undepleted fractures to establish commercial production; and depleted reservoirs require successful application of newer technology to unlock incremental reserves. Our CO2-EOR project in the Delhi Field, operated by Denbury Resources Inc., requires significant amounts of CO2 reserves, the source of which may become unavailable or be curtailed. The Operator controls the operations and CO2 for the project, and as a result, we have a limited ability to control or influence the development and ultimate success of the project. In order to deliver sufficient quantities of CO2 from the Operator’s reserves from its Jackson Dome Field in Mississippi, a pipeline has been constructed to the Delhi Field. However, substantial capital remains to be invested to fully develop the EOR project and meet all pipeline regulatory requirements. The Operator’s failure to manage these and other technical, strategic and logistical risks may render ultimate enhanced recoveries from the planned CO2-EOR project, if any, to fall short of our expectations in volume and or timing. 11 Table of Contents The existing well bores we are re-entering in the Giddings Field may have been originally drilled as far back as the 1980’s. As such, they contain older casing that could be more subject to failure, or the well files, if available, may be incomplete or incorrect. Such problems can result in the complete loss of a well or a much higher drilling and completion cost. Our proved undeveloped locations in the Giddings Field are direct offsets to current or previously producing wells, and there may be unusually long fractures that will connect our well to another producing or depleted well, thus reducing the potential recovery, increasing our drilling costs, or delaying production due to recovery of drilling fluid lost during drilling into the depleted fractures. Our projects generally require that we acquire new leases in and around established fields or other known resources, and drill and complete wells, some of which may be horizontal, as well as negotiate the purchase of existing well bores and production equipment or install our proprietary artificial lift technology that has yet to be proven in the field. Leases may not be available and required oil field services may not be obtainable on the desired schedule or at the expected costs. While the projected drilling results may be considered to be low to moderate in risk, there is no assurance as to what productive results may be obtained, if any. Our limited operating history and newness of our production makes it difficult to predict future results and increases the risk of an investment in our company. We commenced our crude oil and natural gas operations in late 2003 and have a limited operating history, particularly in our currently producing fields. All of our current production is the result of recent drilling activities, thus our future production retains substantial variability. Therefore, we face all the risks common to companies in their early stage of development, including uncertainty of funding sources, high initial expenditure levels and uncertain revenue streams, an unproven business model, and difficulties in managing growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in establishing a new business. Any forward-looking statements in this report do not reflect any possible effects on us from the outcome of these types of uncertainty. Prior to the Delhi Farmout, we had incurred significant losses since the inception of our oil and natural gas operations and we have since resumed incurring losses, except for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, in which we recognized positive operating income. We cannot assure future profitability or success. While members of our management team have previously carried out or been involved with acquisition and production activities in the crude oil and natural gas industry while employed by us and other companies, we cannot assure you that our intended acquisition targets and development plans will lead to the successful development of crude oil and natural gas production or additional revenue. We may be unable to continue licensing from third parties the technologies that we use in our business operations. As is customary in the crude oil and natural gas industry, we utilize a variety of widely available technologies in the crude oil and natural gas development and drilling process. We do not have any patents or copyrights for the technology we currently utilize, but a patent application is pending on one technology. We license or purchase services from the holders of such technology, or outsource the technology integral to our business from third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on these sources of technology and assumes that such sources will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We cannot be certain whether any third-party patents will require us to utilize or develop alternative technology or to alter our business plan, obtain additional licenses, or cease activities that infringe on third-parties’ intellectual property rights. Our inability to acquire any third-party licenses, or to integrate the related third-party products into our business plan, could result in delays in development unless and until equivalent products can be identified, licensed, and integrated. Existing or future licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party obligations. Our proprietary technology may not be awarded patent protection and may not result in a commercial service or product. We have developed and field tested certain artificial lift technology that we hope to commercialize and from which we expect to generate material value. Our success in commercializing the technology will depend upon additional positive field tests, acceptance by industry and our ability to defend the technology from competitors through confidentiality and/or patent protection. Although our patent is pending, there is no assurance that a patent will be awarded or that we will have the ability to exercise patent defense against competitors. 12 Table of Contents Regulatory and accounting requirements may require substantial reductions in reporting proven reserves. We review on a periodic basis the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties under the applicable rules of the various regulatory agencies, including the SEC. Under the full-cost method of accounting that we use, the carrying value of proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net after-tax cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of this “ceiling” test generally requires pricing future revenues at the un-escalated prices in effect as of the end of our fiscal quarter and requires a write down of the carrying value for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded, even if prices declined for only a short period of time. We may in the future be required to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties when crude oil and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. Whether we will be required to take such a charge will depend in part on the prices for crude oil and natural gas at the end of any fiscal period and the effect of reserve additions or revisions and capital expenditures during such period. If a write down is required, it would result in a charge to our earnings but would not impact our cash flow from operating activities. Our profitability is highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, which have historically been very volatile. Our estimated proved reserves, revenues, profitability, operating cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Historically, these prices have been very volatile and are likely to remain volatile in the future. A significant and extended downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and could result in a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties and the amounts of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that we have not hedged our production with derivative contracts or fixed-price contracts, any significant and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial position. We may be unable to acquire and develop the additional oil and natural gas reserves that are required in order to sustain our business operations. In general, the volumes of production from crude oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Due to the Delhi Farmout, the sale of our properties in the Tullos Field and the decline characteristics of our Giddings wells, our near-term future growth and financial condition are dependent on our ability to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves. We are subject to substantial operating risks that may adversely affect our results of operations. The crude oil and natural gas business involves numerous operating hazards such as well blowouts, mechanical failures, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, hurricanes, flooding, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. We could suffer substantial losses as a result of any of these events. While we carry general liability, control of well, and operator’s extra expense coverage typical in our industry, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. We may not be the operator of some of our wells in the future. As a result, our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for these wells will be less subject to our control. Operators of these wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. If this occurs, the development of, and production of crude oil and natural gas from, some wells may not occur which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect us. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of any of whom could have a material adverse affect on our operations. In particular, our future success is dependent upon Robert S. Herlin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Sterling H. McDonald, our Chief Financial Officer, and Daryl V. Mazzanti, our Vice-President of Operations, for sourcing, evaluating and closing deals, capital raising, and oversight of development and operations. Presently, the Company is not a beneficiary of any key man insurance. 13 Table of Contents The loss of any of our skilled technical personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the services of skilled technical personnel to lease, drill, complete, operate and maintain our crude oil and natural gas fields. We do not have the resources to perform all of these services and therefore we outsource many of our requirements. Additionally, as our production increases, so does our need for such services. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our drilling and maintenance service providers. Accordingly, there is a risk that any of our service providers could discontinue servicing our crude oil and natural gas fields for any reason. Although we believe that we could establish alternative sources for most of our operational and maintenance needs, any delay in locating, establishing relationships, and training our sources could result in production shortages and maintenance problems, with a resulting loss of revenue to us. We also rely on third-party carriers for the transportation and distribution of our production, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse affect on our operations. We may have difficulty managing future growth and the related demands on our resources and may have difficulty in achieving future growth. Although we hope to experience growth through acquisitions and development activity, any such growth may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. Our ability to grow will depend upon a number of factors, including: · our ability to identify and acquire new development or acquisition projects; · our ability to develop existing properties; · our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel; · the results of our development program and acquisition efforts; · the success of our technologies; · hydrocarbon prices; · drilling, completion and equipment prices; · our ability to successfully integrate new properties; and · our access to capital. We can not assure you that we will be able to successfully grow or manage any such growth. We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies. Our competitors include major integrated crude oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent crude oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we have. We may not be able to successfully conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Specifically, these larger competitors may be able to pay more for development projects and productive crude oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on hiring contract service providers, obtaining oilfield equipment and acquiring the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in our industry. The crude oil and natural gas reserves included in this report are only estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserves discussed in this report are only estimates that may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such 14 Table of Contents reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times, may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. We cannot market the crude oil and natural gas that we produce without the assistance of third parties. The marketability of the crude oil and natural gas that we produce depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third-party services, including crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in or delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, federal and state regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and transportation could affect our ability to produce and market our crude oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and re-working existing wells involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure fluctuations or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or re-working is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as Hydraulic Fracturing and Horizontal Drilling do not guarantee that we will find crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse affect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include Horizontal Drilling or Hydraulic Fracturing, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule and costs may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; 15 Table of Contents · the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; · the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; · our financial resources and results; · the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and · the success of our drilling technology. We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; · the price and level of foreign imports; and · overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, crude oil and natural gas prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 31% of our reserves at July 1, 2009 are crude oil reserves and 34% are natural gas liquids reserves, we are heavily impacted by movements in crude oil prices, which also influence natural gas liquids prices. Oil field service and materials’ prices may increase, and the availability of such services may be inadequate to meet our needs. Our business plan to redevelop mature crude oil and natural gas resources requires third party oilfield service vendors and various materials such as steel tubulars, which we do not control. Long lead times and spot shortages may prevent us from, or delay us in, maintaining or increasing the production volumes we expect. In addition, if costs for such services and materials increase, it may render certain or all of our projects uneconomic, as compared to the earlier prices we may have assumed when deciding to redevelop newly purchased or existing properties. Further adverse economic outcomes may result from the long lead times often necessary to execute and complete our redevelop plans. Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be 16 Table of Contents changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages, whether actual or not, caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease or nearby properties. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by continued recession in the United States or global economy. The current recessionary economic environment has resulted in lower demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in a decline of commodity prices. If the current recessionary environment continues, reduced demand for petroleum products and lower realized prices, particularly for natural gas, may continue and result in continued or increased operating losses. These factors could negatively impact our operations and may limit our growth. Risks Associated with Our Stock Our stock prices has been and may continue to be very volatile. Our common stock is thinly traded and the market price has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, during the year prior to June 30, 2009, our stock price as traded on the NYSE Amex ranged from $1.00 to $6.05. The variance in our stock price makes it extremely difficult to forecast with any certainty the stock price at which an investor may be able to buy or sell shares of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of factors that are out of our control, such as: · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · naked short selling of our common stock and stock price manipulation; · changes or fluctuations in the commodity prices of crude oil and natural gas; · general conditions and trends in the crude oil and natural gas industry; and · general economic, political and market conditions. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates may be able to control the election of our directors and all other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 5.9 million shares or approximately 21% of our outstanding common stock. Our former Chairman, and current director of the Board, Mr. Laird Q. Cagan, is a Managing Director of Cagan McAfee Capital Partners, LLC (“CMCP”). Mr. Eric McAfee, also a Managing Director of 17 Table of Contents CMCP, currently owns or controls, directly or indirectly, approximately 4.7 million shares, or approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock, but is neither an officer, employee nor a member of our board of directors. Collectively, the two managing directors of CMCP currently own or control, directly or indirectly, approximately 5.0 million shares, or approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. Institutional affiliates, including JVL Advisors LLC and Peninsula Capital Management, LP, collectively own approximately 6.4 million shares or approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these holders, could exercise effective control over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market for our common stock is limited and may not provide adequate liquidity. Our common stock is currently thinly traded on the NYSE Amex. In the year prior to June 30, 2009, the actual trading volume in our common stock ranged from zero traded shares of common stock to a high of 523,581 shares of common stock traded, with only 55 days exceeding a trading volume of 50,000 shares. On most days, this trading volume means there is limited liquidity in our shares of common stock. Selling our shares is more difficult because smaller quantities of shares are bought and sold and news media coverage about us is limited. These factors result in a limited trading market for our common stock and therefore holders of our stock may be unable to sell shares purchased, should they desire to do so. If securities or industry analyst do not publish research reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Small, relatively unknown companies can achieve visibility in the trading market through research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish. However, to our knowledge, only three independent analysts cover our company. The lack of published reports by independent securities analysts could limit the interest in our common stock and negatively affect our stock price. We do not have any control over the research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If any analyst who does cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The issuance of additional common stock and preferred stock would dilute existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent of such authorization, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as our board may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock now outstanding. We are also authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by our board of directors. Such designation of new series of preferred stock may be made without stockholder approval, and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common stock now outstanding. Preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by: · exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; · receiving preferences over the holders of common stock regarding our surplus funds in the event of our dissolution, liquidation or the payment of dividends to Preferred stockholders; · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; and · discouraging bids for our common stock. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate that we will be paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be dependent upon the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, if any, our financial condition, our anticipated capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors may think are relevant. However, we currently intend for the foreseeable future to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 