D. Risk Factors Birch is Currently in the Development Stage Birch is currently in the development stage. There is a risk that operations may have delays, interruptions or increased costs or that operations may not commence at all, due to many factors, including, without limitation: • breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • production performance falling below expected levels of output or efficiency; • design errors; • contractor or operator errors; • non-performance by third-party contractors; • labour disputes, disruptions or declines in productivity; • increases in materials or labour costs; • inability to attract sufficient numbers of qualified workers; • delays in obtaining, or conditions imposed by, regulatory approvals; • changes in the scope of the development or operations; • violation of permit requirements; • disruption of energy supply; and • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, storms or explosions. The current construction and operations schedules may not proceed as planned, there may be delays and the development of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project may not be completed on budget. Any such delays will likely increase the costs and may require additional financing, which financing may not be available. Actual costs to construct and develop the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project will vary from the estimates set forth in this Form 20-F and such variances may be significant. Given the stage of development Birch's initial limestone quarry, called the Muskeg Valley quarry ("MVQ") and the expansion of the quarry and start-up of limestone plant operations, called the Hammerstone Project, various changes may be made prior to completing construction. Based upon current scheduling, the MVQ is not expected to commence operations until mid 2005 and the Hammerstone Project is not expected to start commercial quicklime operations until 2008. The information contained herein, including, without limitation, 8 reserve and economic evaluations, is conditional upon receipt of all regulatory approvals and no material changes being made to the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project. Reserves and Resource Quantities and Quality are Based on Estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and resources, including many factors beyond Birch's control, and no assurance can be given the indicated level of reserves or recovery thereof will be realized. In general, estimates of economically recoverable limestone reserves and the future net cash flow there from are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve and resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable limestone, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenue expected there from, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Estimates with respect to reserves and resources that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves and/or estimates of future sales, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be material, in the estimated reserves. Reserve and resource estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Reserve and resource have been determined based upon assumed aggregate and quicklime prices and operating costs. Market price fluctuations of aggregate and quicklime prices may render uneconomic the recovery of certain grades of limestone. Moreover, short-term factors relating to oil sands resources and world oil prices may impair profitability in any particular period. No assurance can be provided as to the quantity or quality of the limestone to be produced from the quarry. Birch Has a Lack of Cash Flows and Financing May Not be Available to the Company Birch is a developing company with insufficient revenue to meet its yearly operating and capital requirements. The Company has historically raised funds necessary to conduct its business primarily through issuance of equity. There is no guarantee the Company will be able to continue to raise funds through additional equity issuances, project debt financing, joint ventures and/or partnering arrangements. Although these are alternatives the Company will investigate, there is no assurance that the Company will receive significant revenues from operations at any time in the near future or that it will have the cash required to become successful or economically viable. The Company holds large land blocks under metallic and industrial mineral permits, permits in the process of conversion to leases and mineral leases issued by the Government of Alberta. The terms and conditions of mineral permits require a mandated level of exploration expenditures for each two-year period in order to continue to hold the rights to explore the land over the ten-year term of a mineral permit. Mineral leases require an annual rental payment in order to hold the leases in good standing. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional funds or have sufficient exploration expenditures to be able to hold all the land in good standing beyond the current term. There is no assurance that the Government of Alberta will approve the conversion of permits to leases. The Government of Alberta has recently indicated it may extend the term of permits beyond the current ten-year term; it is unknown whether or not the term extension will apply retroactively to current permit-to-lease conversions. 9 Competitive Risk May Reduce the Company's Ability to Operate Birch must develop the mineral deposits and there is no assurance the type or amount of the deposit will produce the economic results expected. Additionally, Birch must negotiate sales arrangements with its customers and prove its products are reliable and suitable for use in the oil sands industry. Although Birch believes that competing aggregates in the Fort McMurray region are limited in both size and quality and, as a result, high market share assumptions have been made, Birch may have to compete with larger companies that have greater assets and financial and human resources than Birch, and which may be able to sustain larger losses than Birch to develop business. Birch and the economic viability of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project may be negatively impacted if a new source of aggregates is located and developed. Graymont Western Canada Inc. ("Graymont"), a private quicklime and limestone producing company and competitor to Birch, owns a small number of mineral permits and leases in the vicinity of Birch's Athabasca mineral property. Birch believes these permits and leases are either in an area that is not surface accessible or are in an area that is designated as a recreational and environmental preserve. To Birch's knowledge Graymont has not filed a public disclosure document with Alberta Environment. Alternate Technologies May Reduce the Demand for the Company's Products The use of limestone for aggregates and the use of quicklime and limestone as products for the treatment of air emissions and water treatment could be replaced by alternate technologies if the oil sands industry develops or locates more cost effective and efficient methods. The rate of development of new technologies or the impact on the Company's business cannot be determined. Price Risks May Effect the Marketability of Products Produced and the Company's Financial Results The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and even if commercial quantities of mineral resources are developed, a profitable market may not exist for the sale of such reserves. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any product produced. Significant price movements over short periods of time may be affected by numerous factors, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the Canadian dollar relative to other currencies), interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The price of industrial minerals and precious metals (if the Company were able to identify an economic precious mineral deposit on its mineral permits or leases) have a significant influence on the market price of the Company's shares and the Company's business activities. The effect of these factors on the price of the Company's products cannot accurately be predicted. Aggregate pricing in the Fort McMurray region is typically done on a spot or job basis and long-term contracts are uncommon. Future prices and forecasting of revenues is difficult and unknown and future prices are outside the control of the Company. If prices decline the financial results of the Company will be adversely affected. Customer Dependency May Reduce the Flexibility of the Company to Operate Birch's Industrial Minerals Division will be reliant on the oil sands industry in the Fort McMurray area for the majority of its revenue. Costs of transportation of aggregate are high relative to its cost of production and will limit the Company's ability to ship the product over longer distances. Risks affecting oil sands companies, including fluctuating oil prices, fluctuations between the US and Canadian dollar, energy costs, labour shortages and capital cost overruns, could have a negative impact on Birch. Should the price of oil decline, there is no guarantee oil sands companies will require the predicted volume of the Company's products. 10 Personnel Risks May Impact the Company's Ability to Carry Out its Operational Plans At March 31, 2005, Birch had eleven full time employees and one part time employee working for the Company. The Company relies on various other part time workers, contractors and consultants to assist in executing operations and providing technical guidance. From time to time, Birch also utilizes the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various specific professional services, particularly in the areas of engineering, environmental assessment, drilling, blasting, crushing, processing, analysis and research. Although Birch believes that its relations with its employees, management, directors, consultants and contractors are satisfactory, there can be no assurance that they will remain with Birch for the immediate or foreseeable future. Birch may also rely on joint ventures or other business relations with companies its operations and business strategy. The MVQ will initially require an experienced contract operator. There can be no assurance that a contract operator with the required expertise will be available or will be engaged on terms acceptable to Birch. Birch will be dependent on maintaining its key staff to explore and develop the mineral deposits on the Company's mineral properties. As the Company moves into operations it will be necessary to rely on workers, contractors and consultants in the local area. In northern Alberta, skilled labour shortages are common. There is uncertainty regarding the ability to retain and attract personnel to the project and should the Company not have adequate personnel, the project may not become operational or may not be economically viable. Finally, Birch is relying upon the good faith, expertise and judgment of the officers and directors of the Company to make appropriate decisions with respect to investments and operations. Birch May Require Additional Government Operating Permits In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental operating permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous agencies and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings on the part of the Company. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent upon many variables outside the Company's control. Environmental protection permitting, including the approval of reclamation plans, may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. There can be no assurance that all necessary permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those previously estimated by the Company. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that the Company could not proceed with the development or operation of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project. Title Risks May Result in Title Claims or Disputes Birch is satisfied that it has good and proper right, title and interest in and to the mineral properties that it intends to develop. However, Birch has not obtained title opinions in respect of the permits, permits in the process of conversion to lease and leases on these mineral properties. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. Certain aboriginal peoples have filed a claim against the Government of Canada, the Province of Alberta, certain governmental entities and the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo ("RMWB") (which includes the City of Fort McMurray, Alberta) claiming, among other things, aboriginal title to large areas of lands surrounding Fort McMurray, including the lands on which the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project and most of the oil sands operations in Alberta are located. Such claims, if successful, could have a significant adverse effect on the oil sands bitumen producers and on Birch, the MVQ and/or the Hammerstone Project. 11 Regulatory and Environmental Requirements May Impact the Company's Ability to Operate The Company operates in areas that are subject to governmental provisions regulating exploration and development of mineral resources. Birch may be constrained or forbidden to develop a project in areas of economic mineral deposits or mandated operating guidelines may adversely impact the economic viability of Birch. Additionally, the Company holds metallic and industrial mineral permits, permit-to-lease conversions and leases issued by the Government of Alberta and there are no guarantees the Government will continue to extend land rights under its current practices. Regulatory agencies may impose operating limitations that may adversely affect Birch's revenues and/or the economic viability of a project. Birch is required by regulation to operate under certain environmental guidelines that are mandated by federal and provincial governments in Canada. Additionally, public expectation of the industry's environmental performance remains high and this continues to translate into new and generally more rigorous environmental policies, legislation and regulations. The interventions of environmental groups or local persons in the area of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project could impact the Company's ability to operate. The approval of new development in Canada has, for the past two decades, been the subject of detailed review through a clearly established public hearing process. Abandonment and Reclamation Costs and Regulations May Change Birch will be responsible for compliance with terms and conditions of environmental and regulatory approvals and all laws and regulations regarding the abandonment of the site and reclamation of its lands at the end of its economic life, which abandonment and reclamation costs may be substantial. A breach of such legislation and/or regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including an order for cessation of operations at the site until satisfactory remedies are made. Abandonment and reclamation costs are estimates and since they will be a function of regulatory requirements at the time, costs of goods and services at the time and the value of the salvaged equipment may be more or less than the abandonment and reclamation costs. In addition, in the future Birch may determine it prudent or be required by applicable laws or regulations to establish and fund one or more reclamation funds to provide for payment of future abandonment and reclamations costs. Birch is Subject to Certain Mining Hazards The business of mining is subject to certain types of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, and industrial accidents. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damages, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Any payments made with regards to such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on Birch's financial position. The Company carries insurance to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing to the extent that it is economically feasible but which may not provide adequate. Independent Reviews Provide No Assurance of Future Results Although third parties have prepared reviews, reports and projections relating to the viability and expected performance of the MVQ and the Hammerstone Project, it cannot be assured that these reports, reviews and projections and the assumptions on which they are based will, over time, provide to be accurate. There is a Possibility of Dilution to Present and Prospective Shareholders Any transaction involving the issuance of additional shares of securities may result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common shares. 12 Stock Exchange Rules May Reduce the Liquidity of the Company's Shares Based on the past experience of the Company with respect to the TSXV, there is a risk that the Company's common shares may be halted or suspended from trading on the TSXV. On the basis of statements made by the Company, trading of the Company's common shares was halted by the TSXV on June 16, 2000. In January 2002, Birch accepted a proposal from the TSXV for a negotiated settlement and the matter was resolved in the Company's favour. Trading in Birch's common shares resumed on March 11, 2002. The TSXV advised that, "no adverse inference should be drawn from the suspension." Shareholders Rights Plan May Discourage Change in Control Transactions Although the Company's shareholders rights plan ("Rights Plan") is not intended to prevent a take over of the Company, to secure continuance of current management or the directors in office or to deter fair offers for the common shares of the Company, it may have the result of discouraging certain transactions by making such transactions impractical. See "Item 10 - Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association". Enforcement of Civil Liabilities by Present and Prospective Shareholders May be Adversely Affected The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be affected adversely by the fact that the Company is incorporated under the laws of Alberta, Canada, that the independent auditors who have audited the Company's financial statements and some or all of its directors and officers may be residents of Canada or elsewhere, and that all or a substantial portion of the Company's assets and said persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of the common shares to effect service of process within the United States upon people who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States. Exploration Risk May Impact the Financial and Operational Results of the Company The Company will continue to explore for mineral opportunities on its mineral properties. Mineral exploration activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond Birch's control. Factors such as the cost of labour, materials and services, cost of financing, technological change, demand for and price of commodities, and government regulation, including regulations related to taxes, royalties and environmental protection cannot be accurately predicted. As it relates to precious metals, there is no conclusive evidence supportive of the occurrence of precious metals in economic concentrations or quantities on Birch's mineral properties or that Birch has developed or has access to the technology and methods to extract precious metals. The Company faces certain risks over and above those of conventional mineral exploration companies. Conventional fire assay has not, in general, produced repeatable precious metals concentrations above trace levels for rocks from the Company's mineral properties. There is a risk that an effective fire assay method may not be developed. The failure to obtain repeatable precious metal concentrations by standard methods may mean that there are no significant concentrations of precious metals. If Birch is not successful in identifying a method to quantitatively determine precious metals concentrations, it may or may not be possible to define a precious metal deposit, if such a deposit exists. If a precious metal deposit can be defined, a method for commercial production of precious metals may or may not be available. Intellectual Property May Become Unprotected or Outdated The Company developed new mineral technology for which it received a US patent number 6,494,392 entitled, "Recovery of Natural Nanoclusters and the Nanoclusters Isolated Thereby". The Company may continue to 13 develop new mineral technology, but there is no assurance that it will be economically viable, that patent protection will be available or that there will be a market for the new technology. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully deter and prevent misappropriation, development of, copying by or unauthorized use of the Company's technology. In addition, policing is difficult and expensive. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against the Company in the future with respect to current or future products or intellectual property. Litigation to defend and enforce the Company's intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. 