Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We do not believe that our current liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to meet our currently planned operating requirements for the next 12 months. We do not believe that our current liquidity and capital resources, cash expected to be generated from operations and our ability to draw-down on our credit facilities, if at all, will be sufficient to meet our currently planned operating requirements for the next 12 months. Our concerns about our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements over the next 12 months are primarily a result of our current operating performance relative to plan, as well as our continuing losses, negative cash flows and current liquidity in relation to future obligations, including our obligation to make a payment in October 2007 to Laserscope for the purchase of certain inventory under our Supply Agreement we entered into with American Medical Systems Holdings in connection with the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope and our expected inability to satisfy certain covenants under our loan agreement with Mid-Peninsula Bank, part of Greater Bay Bank N.A., and the Export-Import Bank as of March 31, 2007. Our independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, issued an opinion in connection with their audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006 which stated, that there was substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our recent and current operating performance has not met our expectations, primarily as a result of our inability to realize the full benefits of the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope in our previously anticipated time frame, as well as recent negative cash flows from operations. In particular, revenues from the aesthetics business have been below our expectations. Our ability to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the aesthetics business. As expected, our efforts towards integrating the aesthetics business of Laserscope has and will continue to take a significant amount of time and place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources, and may continue to be more difficult and expensive than originally anticipated. This continued diversion of our management’s attention and any additional delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the aesthetics business will harm our operating results and increase the difficulty of our being able to satisfy our liquidity requirements. In addition, we currently expect that our operating performance for our first fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007 will result in our not being able to satisfy certain current restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities with Mid-Peninsula Bank and the Export-Import Bank, and if we default on these credit facilities and the lenders exercise their remedies, this will further contribute to the difficulties we expect to face in meeting our liquidity requirements over the next 12 months. Our obligations under these credit facilities are secured by a lien on substantially all of the Company’s assets. Each of these credit facilities contain certain customary covenants which require the Company to maintain profitability beginning in our second fiscal quarter of 2007 and to meet certain tangible net worth and debt service requirements. In addition, we must maintain $3.0 million in restricted cash at all times when borrowings are outstanding. We currently have drawn down $11.4 million under this credit facility which is the full amount currently available, and, given our current financial status, we currently do not expect to be able to satisfy the restrictive covenants relating to these facilities as of March 31, 2007. In the event of default by the Company with the covenants under these facilities, Mid-Peninsula Bank and the Export-Import Bank, would be entitled to exercise their remedies, under these facilities, which include declaring all obligations immediately due and payable and disposing of the collateral if obligations were not paid. We have initiated discussions with a view toward restructuring these credit facilities to enable us to come into compliance with applicable covenants; however, we cannot assure you that these discussions will be successful. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II of this report for more information regarding these credit facilities. In order to address our liquidity issues, we plan to, among other things: (i) work towards integrating the aesthetics business as quickly and efficiently as possible and maximizing the potential benefits that may be realized from the acquisition, (ii) modify our planned operations in order to increase our cash flows from operations, (iii) seek to restructure our credit facilities, and (iv) raise additional capital through equity or debt financing in order to enhance our liquidity. 18 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts or that any additional capital raised through debt or equity financings will be available on favorable terms or at all. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, we may have to suspend or cease operations or significantly dilute our stockholders’ equity holdings. We Have More Indebtedness and Fewer Liquid Resources After the Acquisition of the Aesthetics Business of Laserscope, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flows and Business. In order to complete the acquisition, we entered into financing arrangements that provide for a $6 million term loan and a revolving credit line of up to $6 million. We had no debt outstanding at December 30, 2006. We had $12 million outstanding on January 17, 2007 when the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope was consummated. We also used the majority of our liquid resources to finance the acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope. Upon the transfer of the manufacturing of the Laserscope products from Laserscope to us, we are required to purchase up to $9 million of raw materials inventory from Laserscope. As a result of the increase in debt, demands on our cash resources may increase after the completion of the acquisition. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • increase our sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; • result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. Our Loan Agreements Contain Covenant Restrictions that May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business and To Service Our Indebtedness, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure holders that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our debt and to fund other liquidity needs. Our loan agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. 19 Table of Contents Although We Expect that Our Acquisition of the Aesthetics Business of Laserscope Will Result in Benefits to the Company, the Company May Not Realize Those Benefits Because of Integration and Other Challenges. On January 16, 2007, we completed our acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope (the “Aesthetics Business”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of American Medical Systems Holdings, Inc. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the Aesthetics Business with our business. Integrating the Aesthetics Business may be expensive and time-consuming and we may not be able to successfully do so. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and can prove to be more difficult or expensive than predicted. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with the pending acquisition of the Aesthetics Business could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, collaborators, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. These disruptions could harm our operating results. Further, the following specific factors may adversely affect our ability to integrate the Aesthetics Business: • coordinating marketing functions; • transferring of the manufacturing of the Laserscope products to the Company; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • greater than anticipated liabilities; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating our current product and process development efforts with those of the Aesthetics Business in a way which permits us to bring future new products to the market in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We cannot assure you that the combination of the Aesthetics Business with us will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition. In addition, as part of our acquisition, we entered into agreements with Laserscope to obtain certain manufacturing support, administrative services and future intellectual property rights. In the event that Laserscope fails to provide this support and service, or provides such support and service at a level of quality and timeliness inconsistent with the historical delivery of such support and service, or fails to grant us the intellectual property rights we expected, our ability to integrate the Aesthetics Business will be hampered and our operating results may be harmed. Failure to Remediate the Material Weaknesses in Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures in a Timely Manner, or at All, Could Harm Our Operating Results or Cause Us to Fail to Meet Our Regulatory or Reporting Obligations. We evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report and, based on this evaluation, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of the material weaknesses detailed in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In particular, the material weaknesses identified related to the Company’s period-end review procedures. We are taking a number of remedial actions designed to remedy the material weaknesses summarized above. However, if despite our remediation efforts, we fail to remediate our material weaknesses, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our disclosure controls and procedures. These remediation efforts will likely increase our general and administrative expenses and could, therefore, have an adverse effect on our reported net income. Even if we are to successfully remediate such material weaknesses, because of inherent limitations, our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect misstatements or material omissions. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 20 Table of Contents We Rely on Continued Market Acceptance of Our Existing Products and Any Decline in Sales of Our Existing Products Would Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations. We currently market visible and infrared light therapeutic-based photocoagulator medical laser systems and delivery devices to the ophthalmology and aesthetics markets. We believe that continued and increased sales, if any, of these medical laser systems is dependent upon a number of factors including the following: § acceptance of product performance, features, ease of use, scalability and durability; § acceptance of the company’s new marketing programs; § recommendations and opinions by ophthalmologists, dermatologists, other clinicians, plastic surgeons and their associated opinion leaders, including study outcomes; § price of our products and prices of competing products and technologies; § availability of competing products, technologies and alternative treatments; and § level of reimbursement for treatments administered with our products. In addition, we derive a meaningful portion of our sales from recurring revenues including disposable laser probes, EndoProbes and service. Our ability to increase recurring revenues from the sale of EndoProbes will depend primarily upon the features of our current products and product innovation, ease of use and prices of our products, including the relationship to prices of competing delivery devices. The level of service revenues will depend on our quality of care, responsiveness and the willingness of our customers to request our services rather than purchase competing products or services. Any significant decline in market acceptance of our products or our revenues derived from the sales of laser consoles, delivery devices or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If There is Not Sufficient Demand for the Procedures Performed with Our Products, Practitioner Demand for Our Products Could be Inhibited, Resulting in Unfavorable Operating Results and Reduced Growth Potential. Continued expansion of the global market for laser- and other light-based aesthetic procedures is a material assumption of our growth strategy. Most procedures performed using our products are elective procedures not reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to utilize our products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: • evolving customer needs; • the introduction of new products and technologies; • evolving surgical practices; • evolving industry standards; • the cost of procedures performed using our products; • the cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser- or other light-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; and • consumer confidence, which may be impacted by economic and political conditions. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be reduced, resulting in unfavorable operating results and lower growth potential. 21 Table of Contents Our Future Success Depends on Our Ability to Develop and Successfully Introduce New Products and New Applications. Our future success is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance of, manufacture and market new products. Successful commercialization of new products and new applications will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and effectively coordinate with our suppliers. In addition, we must successfully sell and achieve market acceptance of new products and applications and enhanced versions of existing products. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, price, safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, the development of new applications for these products, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. Our ability to market and sell new products may also be subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products or enhanced versions of existing products and achieve market acceptance of new products and new applications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and would cause our net revenues to decline. While We Devote Significant Resources to Research and Development, Our Research and Development May Not Lead to New Products that Achieve Commercial Success. Our research and development process is expensive, prolonged, and entails considerable uncertainty. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with ophthalmic and aesthetic research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required to market such products successfully. The products currently in our development pipeline may not be approved by regulatory entities and may not be commercially successful, and our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of current or future competitors. Therefore, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. The Clinical Trial Process Required to Obtain Regulatory Approvals is Costly and Uncertain, and Could Result in Delays in New Product Introductions or Even an Inability to Release a Product. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals for our products are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, clinical trials but cannot be certain that the trials will ever result in the commercial sale of a product. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials showed promising results. Any of our products may produce undesirable side effects that could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. We, the FDA, or another regulatory authority may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if they or we believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. We Face Strong Competition in Our Markets and Expect the Level of Competition to Grow in the Foreseeable Future. Competition in the market for devices used for ophthalmic and dermatology treatment procedures is intense and is expected to increase. Our competitive position depends on a number of factors including product performance, characteristics and functionality, ease of use, scalability, durability and cost. Our principal competitors in ophthalmology are Lumenis Ltd., Nidek, Carl Zeiss, Inc., Alcon, and Synergetics, Inc. Most of these companies currently offer a competitive semiconductor-based laser system in ophthalmology. Also within ophthalmology pharmaceutical alternative treatments for AMD such as Visudyne (Novartis), Macugen (OSI Pharmaceuticals) and Lucentis (Genentech) compete rigorously with traditional laser procedures. Our principal competitors in dermatology are Palomar Technologies, Candela Corporation, Syneron, and Lumenis Ltd. Some competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, product development, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. Some companies also have greater name recognition than we do and long-standing customer relationships. In addition to other companies that manufacture photocoagulators, we compete with pharmaceuticals, other technologies and other surgical techniques. Some medical companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new technologies or therapies that are more effective in treating conditions targeted by us or are less expensive than our current or future products. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If We Cannot Increase Our Sales Volumes, Reduce Our Costs or Introduce Higher Margin Products to Offset Anticipated Reductions in the Average Unit Price of Our Products, Our Operating Results May Suffer. We have experienced some declines in the average unit price of our products and expect to continue to suffer from declines in the future. The average unit price of our products may decrease in the future in response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by our competitors or other factors. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or through new product introductions, our net revenues will decline. In addition, to maintain our gross margins we must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our products. If we cannot maintain our gross margins our business could be seriously harmed, particularly if the average selling price of our products decreases significantly without a corresponding increase in sales. We Depend on Sales of Our Ophthalmology Products for a Significant Portion of Our Operating Results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large portion of our revenue and profits from sales of our ophthalmology products. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, our ophthalmology sales were $30.8 million or 86% of total sales. We anticipate that sales of our ophthalmology products will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. We Depend on International Sales for a Significant Portion of Our Operating Results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large portion of our revenue from international sales. For the year ended December 30, 2006, our international sales were $14.0 million. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues, particularly ophthalmology, in the foreseeable future. None of our international revenues and costs has been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our products more expensive and thus less competitive in foreign markets. The factors stated above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • cultural differences; • changes in foreign medical reimbursement and coverage policies and programs; • political and economic instability; • impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • performance of our international channel of distributors; • foreign certification requirements, including continued ability to use the “CE” mark in Europe; 23 Table of Contents • reduced or limited protections of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; • longer accounts receivable collection periods; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • multiple protectionist, adverse and changing foreign governmental laws and regulations. Any one or more of these factors stated above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As we expand our existing international operations, especially following our acquisition of the aesthetics business of Laserscope, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. These or other similar risks could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We Are Exposed to Risks Associated With Worldwide Economic Slowdowns and Related Uncertainties. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could cause a slowdown in customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Unstable political, social and economic conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, as well as effectively manage supply chain relationships. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We Rely on Our Direct Sales Force and Network of International Distributors to Sell Our Products and any Failure to Maintain Our Direct Sales Force and Distributor Relationships Could Harm Our Business. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenue depends upon our direct sales force within the United States and relationships with independent distributors outside the United States. Currently our direct sales force consists of 21 employees and we maintain relationships with 77 independent distributors internationally selling our products into 107 countries through four direct Area Sales Managers. We generally grant our distributors exclusive territories for the sale of our products in specified countries. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our distributors to the sales of our products is not within our control. Our international sales are entirely dependent on the efforts of these third parties. If any distributor breaches terms of its distribution agreement or fails to generate sales of our products, we may be forced to replace the distributor and our ability to sell our products into that exclusive sales territory would be adversely affected. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. We may be unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, which may limit our revenues and our ability to maintain market share. The loss of the services of these key personnel would harm our business. Similarly, our distributor agreements are generally terminable at will by either party and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, which would affect our international sales and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If We Lose Key Personnel or Fail to Integrate Replacement Personnel Successfully, Our Ability to Manage Our Business Could Be Impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, and the results of our operations. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and the San Francisco Bay Area, as well as other geographic markets in which we recruit, is intense and characterized by increasing salaries, which may increase our operating expenses or hinder our ability to recruit qualified candidates. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. If We Fail to Accurately Forecast Demand For Our Product and Component Requirements For the Manufacture of Our Product, We Could Incur Additional Costs or Experience Manufacturing Delays and May Experience Lost Sales or Significant Inventory Carrying Costs. We use quarterly and annual forecasts based primarily on our anticipated product orders to plan our manufacturing efforts and determine our requirements for components and materials. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our product and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for such components. If we overestimate the demand for our product, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. Over the past several quarters, we have placed a high priority on our asset management efforts to, among other things, reduce overall inventory levels and increase our cash position. If we underestimate demand for our product and, consequently, our component and materials requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing, delay delivery of our product to our customers and result in the loss of customer sales. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results. We Depend on Sole Source or Limited Source Suppliers. We rely on third parties to manufacture substantially all of the components used in our products, including optics, laser diodes and crystals. We have some long term or volume purchase agreements with our suppliers and currently purchase components on a purchase order basis. Some of our suppliers and manufacturers are sole or limited sources. In addition, some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time. There are risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers, including the following: § unavailability of, shortages or limitations on the ability to obtain supplies of components in the quantities that we require; § delays in delivery or failure of suppliers to deliver critical components on the dates we require; § failure of suppliers to manufacture components to our specifications, and potentially reduced quality; and § inability to obtain components at acceptable prices. 25 Table of Contents Our business and operating results may suffer from the lack of alternative sources of supply for critical sole and limited source components. The process of qualifying suppliers is complex, requires extensive testing with our products, and may be lengthy, particularly as new products are introduced. New suppliers would have to be educated in our production processes. In addition, the use of alternate components may require design alterations to our products and additional product testing under FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agency guidelines, which may delay sales and increase product costs. Any failures by our vendors to adequately supply limited and sole source components may impair our ability to offer our existing products, delay the submission of new products for regulatory approval and market introduction, materially harm our business and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Establishing our own capabilities to manufacture these components would be expensive and could significantly decrease our profit margins. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to obtain components in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted. We Face Risks Associated with our Collaborative and OEM Relationships. Our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from collaborations with us or may not devote sufficient resources to the marketing and sale of such products. For example, in 2005 we developed and sold a laser system on an OEM basis for a third party which positively impacted the revenues and gross margins during the second half of 2005. We cannot provide assurance that these types of relationships will continue over a longer period. Our reliance on others for clinical development, manufacturing and distribution of our products may result in unforeseen problems. Further, our collaborative partners may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others. If a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us, our ability to develop, introduce, market and sell the product may be significantly impaired and we may be forced to discontinue altogether the product resulting from the collaboration. We may not be able to negotiate alternative collaboration agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure of any current or future collaboration efforts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Face Manufacturing Risks. The manufacture of our infrared and visible light photocoagulators and the related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical subassemblies and all of our final products at our facility in Mountain View, California. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality control issues or assembly constraints, particularly with regard to new products that we may introduce. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products, which may require that we qualify other manufacturers for our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations and, as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively impact our net revenues. We Depend on Collaborative Relationships to Develop, Introduce and Market New Products, Product Enhancements and New Applications. We depend on both clinical and commercial collaborative relationships. We have entered into collaborative relationships with academic medical centers and physicians in connection with the research and innovation and clinical testing of our products. Commercially, we currently collaborate with Bausch & Lomb to design and manufacture a solid-state green wavelength (532nm) laser photocoagulator module, called the Millennium Endolase module. The Millennium Endolase module is designed to be a component of Bausch & Lomb’s ophthalmic surgical suite product offering and is not expected to be sold as a stand-alone product. Sales of the Millennium Endolase module are dependent upon the actual order rate from and shipment rate to Bausch & Lomb, which depends on the efforts of our partner and is beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our relationship with Bausch & Lomb will result in further sales of our Millennium Endolase module. The failure to obtain any additional future clinical or commercial collaborations and the resulting failure or success of such arrangements of any current or future clinical or commercial collaboration relationships could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If We Fail to Maintain Our Relationships With Health Care Providers, Customers May Not Buy Our Products and Our Revenue and Profitability May Decline. We market our products to numerous health care providers, including eye care professionals, hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, corporate optometry chains and group purchasing organizations. We have developed and strive to maintain close relationships with members of each of these groups who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. We rely on these groups to recommend our products to their patients and to other members of their organizations. The failure of our existing products and any new products we may introduce to retain the support of these various groups could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate from Quarter to Quarter and Year to Year. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include the following: • general economic uncertainties and political concerns; • the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and new applications; • changes in demand for our existing line of dermatology and ophthalmic products; • the cost and availability of components and subassemblies, including the ability of our sole or limited source suppliers to deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned; • our ability to maintain sales volumes at a level sufficient to cover fixed manufacturing and operating costs; • fluctuations in our product mix between dermatology and ophthalmic products and foreign and domestic sales; • the effect of regulatory approvals and changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; • introduction of new products, product enhancements and new applications by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; • our long and highly variable sales cycle; • changes in the prices at which we can sell our products; • changes in customers’ or potential customers’ budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products; and • increased product innovation costs. In addition to these factors, our quarterly results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by seasonal factors. 27 Table of Contents Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we have historically made a significant portion of each quarter’s product shipments near the end of the quarter. If that pattern continues, any delays in shipment of products could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for such quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below expectations, which would likely cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our Stock Price Has Been and May Continue to be Volatile and an Investment in Our Common Stock Could Suffer a Decline in Value. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant clinical achievements, changes in market valuations of other similar companies in our industry and general market conditions. From time to time, we meet with investors and potential investors. In addition, we receive attention by securities analysts and present at analyst meetings when invited. Our common stock may experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes. These broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. Material Increases in Interest Rates May Harm Our Sales. We currently sell our products primarily to health care providers in general practice. These health care providers often purchase our products with funds they secure through various financing arrangements with third party financial institutions, including credit facilities and short-term loans. If interest rates continue to increase, these financing arrangements will be more expensive to our customers, which would effectively increase the overall cost of owning our products for our customers and, thereby, may decrease demand for our products. Any reduction in the sales of our products would cause our business to suffer. We Are Subject To Government Regulation Which May Cause Us to Delay or Withdraw the Introduction of New Products or New Applications for Our Products. The medical devices that we market and manufacture are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by foreign and state governments. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the related regulations, the FDA regulates the design, development, clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion of medical devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the market, the product must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory review process implemented by the FDA under federal law. Unless otherwise exempt, a device manufacturer must obtain market clearance through either the 510(k) premarket notification process or the lengthier premarket approval application (PMA) process. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the device and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the FDA process can take several years, require extensive clinical testing and result in significant expenditures. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown safety issues may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Other countries also have extensive regulations regarding clinical trials and testing prior to new product introductions. Our failure to obtain government approvals or any delays in receipt of such approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA imposes additional regulations on manufacturers of approved medical devices. We are required to comply with the applicable Quality System regulations and our manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed as part of the product approval process before being utilized for commercial manufacturing. Noncompliance with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. Any of these actions by the FDA would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue operating our business and the results of our operations. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we are also subject to varying product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. As a result of our sales in Europe, we are required to have all products “CE” marked, an international symbol affixed to all products demonstrating compliance with the European Medical Device Directive and all applicable standards. While currently all of our released products are CE marked, continued certification is based on the successful review of our quality system by our European Registrar during their annual audit. Any loss of certification would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If We Fail to Comply With the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and Laser Performance Standards, Our Manufacturing Operations Could Be Halted, and Our Business Would Suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. If We Modify One of Our FDA Approved Devices, We May Need to Seek Reapproval, Which, if Not Granted, Would Prevent Us from Selling Our Modified Products or Cause Us to Redesign Our Products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a pre-market approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. We Rely on Patents and Proprietary Rights to Protect our Intellectual Property and Business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary information. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements that are significant to the development of our business. We have been issued fifteen United States patents and five foreign patents on the technologies related to our products and processes. We have approximately five pending patent applications in the United States and six foreign pending patent applications that have been filed. Our patent applications may not be approved. Any patents granted now or in the future may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and development by our competitors of competing products. Moreover, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. 29 Table of Contents In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we seek to protect, in part, through proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. Our proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants contain industry standard provisions requiring such individuals to assign to us without additional consideration any inventions conceived or reduced to practice by them while employed or retained by us, subject to customary exceptions. Proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and others may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, our trade secrets may become known to or independently developed by competitors. The laser and medical device industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Numerous patents are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Until recently patent applications were maintained in secrecy in the United States until the patents issued. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published eighteen months after the filing date. However, since patent applications continue to be maintained in secrecy for at least some period of time, both within the United States and with regards to international patent applications, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe any patents or patent applications held by third parties. We have, from time to time, been notified of, or have otherwise been made aware of, claims that we may be infringing upon patents or other proprietary intellectual property owned by others. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or proprietary intellectual property. Although patent holders commonly offer such licenses, licenses under such patents or intellectual property may not be offered or the terms of any offered licenses may not be reasonable. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we are successful on the merits, would be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays or require us to develop noninfringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Management believes that liabilities resulting from the Synergetics Litigation Matters described in Part I, Item 3 , or other claims which are pending or known to be threatened, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. However, it is possible that cash flows or results or operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these contingencies or because of the diversion of management’s attention and the incurrence of significant expenses. The Requirements of Complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Might Strain Our Resources, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Condition. We are subject to a number of requirements, including the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning in 2007 we will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which will require management to perform an assessment of internal control over financial reporting. These requirements might place a strain on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we might need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. 30 Table of Contents Because We Do Not Require Training for Users of Our Products, and Sell Our Products to Non-physicians, There Exists an Increased Potential for Misuse of Our Products, Which Could Harm Our Reputation and Our Business. Federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We, and our distributors, generally offer but do not require purchasers or operators of our products to attend training sessions. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedure. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. Some of Our Laser Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects That Are Not Detected Until Deployed By Our Customers, Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues. Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve such yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on certain of our product sales, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of failure rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: • loss of customers; • increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; • damage to our brand reputation; • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and engineering resources; and • legal actions by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our Products Could Be Subject to Recalls Even After Receiving FDA Approval or Clearance. A Recall Would Harm Our Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. A recall could divert management’s attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our future sales. If We Fail to Manage Growth Effectively, Our Business Could Be Disrupted Which Could Harm Our Operating Results. We have experienced and may continue to experience growth in our business. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, new product innovation and clinical trials for new applications and products. We must also be prepared to expand our work force and to train, motivate and manage additional employees as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Manufacturing Capacity May Not Be Adequate to Meet the Demands of Our Business. If our sales increase substantially, we may need to increase our production capacity. Any prolonged disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facilities could materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that if we choose to scale-up our manufacturing operations, we will have the resources necessary to do so, or that we will be able to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely fashion, which could affect our ability to meet product demand or result in additional costs. If Product Liability Claims are Successfully Asserted Against Us, We may Incur Substantial Liabilities That May Adversely Affect Our Business or Results of Operations. We may be subject to product liability claims from time to time. Our products are highly complex and some are used to treat extremely delicate eye tissue and skin conditions on and near a patient’s face. Although we maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $10.0 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10.0 million, our coverage from our insurance policies may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive. We might not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us, if at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Operating Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Third Party Coverage and Reimbursement Policies and any Uncertainty Regarding Healthcare Reform Measures. Our ophthalmology products are typically purchased by doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users, which bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing and challenging the coverage of new products and the level of reimbursement for covered products. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may not obtain adequate reimbursement for use of our products from third-party payers. While we believe that the laser procedures using our products have generally been reimbursed, payers may deny coverage and reimbursement for our products if they determine that the device was not reasonable and necessary for the purpose used, was investigational or was not cost-effective. In addition, third party payers may not initiate coverage of new procedures using our products for a significant period. In September 2000, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, advised that claims for reimbursement for certain age related macular degeneration, or AMD, procedures which use our OcuLight SLx laser system, could be submitted for reimbursement, with coverage and payment to be determined by the local medical carriers at their discretion. To date five carriers representing 17 states have written reimbursement coverage policies on Transpupillary Thermotherapy, or TTT. The states reimbursing for TTT are Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, 32 Table of Contents Hawaii, Iowa, Idaho, Mississippi, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nevada, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Washington and Wyoming. Domestic sales of the OcuLight SLx laser system may continue to be limited until more local medical carriers reimburse for performing such AMD procedures or until CMS advises that claims for these procedures may be submitted directly to CMS at the national level. The clinical results of the TTT4CNV trial and other clinical trials may influence the individual state or CMS decision to reimburse for certain laser procedures. In November 2005, we filed a CPT (Current Procedural Terminology) Change Request Form seeking the extension of Category III (Emerging Technology) codes 0016T and 0017T for wet and dry forms of AMD. We learned in early May that the panel had voted to retain the Category III codes 0016T and 0017T on reporting Transpupillary Thermotherapy/Ablation of macular drusen for an extension of five years or until codes have been accepted for placement in the Category I section of CPT. Changes in government legislation or regulation or in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products may prohibit adequate reimbursement. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, reduce the costs of healthcare and change medical reimbursement policies. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may decline to purchase our products to the extent there is uncertainty regarding reimbursement of medical procedures using our products and any healthcare reform measures. Further proposed legislation, regulation and policy changes affecting third party reimbursement are likely. We are unable to predict what legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation may have on us. However, denial of coverage and reimbursement of our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Successful Outcome of Clinical Trials and the Development of New Applications Using Certain of Our Products will Accelerate Future Revenue Growth Rates. The Company’s ability to generate incremental revenue growth will depend, in part, on the successful outcome of clinical trials that lead to the development of new applications using our products. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. If the future results of any of our clinical trials fail to demonstrate improved patient outcomes and/or the development of new product applications, our ability to generate incremental revenue growth would be adversely affected. We have supported several clinical trials, including, for example, the TTT4CNV and the PTAMD clinical trials. If Our Facilities Were To Experience Catastrophic Loss, Our Operations Would Be Seriously Harmed. Our facilities could be subject to catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. All of our research and product innovation activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in Mountain View, California. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expense to repair and replace our facilities. 33 Table of Contents Our Business is Subject to Environmental Regulations. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety requirements of the United States and foreign countries, including those relating to discharges of substances to the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. Failure to maintain compliance with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In the future, federal, state or local governments in the United States or foreign countries could enact new or more stringent laws or issue new or more stringent regulations concerning environmental and worker health and safety matters that could affect our operations. Also, in the future, contamination may be found to exist at our current or former facilities or off-site locations where we have sent wastes. We could be held liable for such newly discovered contamination which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In addition, changes in environmental and worker health and safety requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our Export Controls May Not be Adequate to Ensure Compliance With United States Export Laws, Especially When We Sell Our Products to Distributors Over Which We Have Limited Control. The United States government has declared an embargo that restricts the export of products and services to a number of countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, for a variety of reasons, including the support by these countries of terrorism. We sell our products through distributors in Europe, Asia and the Middle East, and in such circumstances, the distributor is responsible for interacting with the end user of our products, including assisting in the set up of any products purchased by such end user. In order to comply with United States export laws, we have instituted export controls including training for our personnel in export restrictions and requirements, appointing an export control officer to oversee our export procedures, executing agreements with our distributors that include defining their territory for sale and requirements pertaining to United States export laws, obtaining end user information from our distributors and screening it to restricted party lists maintained by the United States government. While we believe that these procedures are adequate to prevent the export or re-export of our products into countries under embargo by the United States government, we cannot assure you that our products will not be exported or re-exported by our distributors into such restricted countries. In particular, our control over what our distributors do with our products is necessarily limited, and we cannot assure you that they will not sell our products to an end user in a country in violation of United States export laws. Any violation of United States export regulations could result in substantial legal, consulting and accounting costs, and significant fines and/or criminal penalties. In the event that our products are exported to countries under a United States trade embargo in violation of applicable United States export laws and regulations, such violations, costs and penalties or other actions that could be taken against us could adversely affect our reputation and/or have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. We have sold and may continue to sell, with a license, our products into countries that are under embargo by the United States and as a result have incurred and may continue to incur significant legal, consulting and accounting fees and may place our Company’s reputation at risk. United States export laws permit the sale of medical products to certain countries under embargo by the United States government if the seller of such products obtains a license to do so, which requirements are in place because the United States has designated such countries as state sponsors of terrorism. Certain of our products have been sold in Syria under license through a distribution agreement with an independent distributor. In addition, certain of our products were distributed in Iran without United States governmental authorization. The aggregate revenue generated by sales of our products into Sudan and Syria have been immaterial to our business and results of operations. We may continue to supply medical devices to Sudan and Syria and other countries that are under embargo by the United States government upon obtaining all necessary licenses. We do not believe, however, that our sales into such countries will be material to our business or results of operations. There are risks we face in selling to countries under United States embargo, including, but not limited to, possible 34 Table of Contents damage to our reputation for sales to countries that are deemed to support terrorism, and failure of our export controls to limit sales strictly to the terms of the relevant license, which failure may result in civil and criminal penalties. In addition, we may incur significant legal, consulting and accounting costs in ensuring compliance with our export licenses to countries under embargo. Any damage to our reputation from such sales, failure to comply with the terms of our export licenses or the additional costs we incur in making such sales could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. 