ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others could adversely affect our operations: The following is not intended as, and should not be construed as, an exhaustive list of relevant risk factors. There may be other risks that are relevant to its own particular circumstances or generally. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Continuing global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval. Many major economies worldwide entered significant economic recessions in 2007 and continue to experience economic weakness even though economies have begun to show signs of recovery. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread recession and potentially prolonged economic recovery, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence, substantially increased and increasing unemployment rates and the crisis in the global housing and mortgage markets have all contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for both established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by government interventions in financial systems led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to economic uncertainty of unprecedented levels. The availability, cost and terms of credit also have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in many cases cease to provide, credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial and continuing decrease in spending by businesses and consumers over the past two years, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing debt instruments and to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease financing to meet liquidity needs. This financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in the following ways as well as in other ways that we currently cannot predict. • Potential risk in refinancing outstanding debts: Although none of our major debt instruments are scheduled to mature before 2013, at the earliest, if the volatility in the global capital markets were to continue, our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness when due could be severely constrained. See “—Risks Associated with Our Liquidity Needs and Debt Securities.” Any such refinancing could require significantly more expensive interest rates and covenants that restrict our operations to a significantly greater extent. • Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions and credit markets may cause consumers, business and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased availability of cash and credit, and declining business and consumer confidence, any of which may affect the usage of our services by the customers and the ability of those customers to pay for our services. Accordingly, future demand for our products and services could differ from our current expectations. Similarly, our customers may experience liquidity issues of their own that adversely affect our ability to collect amounts due from them in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, if the global economy and credit markets continue to deteriorate or cease to recover and our future sales decline, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. 26 Table of Contents Strengthening of the United States Dollar (“USD”) against certain foreign currencies reduces the amount of USDs generated from foreign currency payments from our foreign operating subsidiaries and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to service our debt. A significant portion of our net revenue (about 82% for the year ended December 31, 2009) is derived from sales and operations outside the U.S. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the USD. Our foreign operating subsidiaries, including our largest operating subsidiaries in Canada and Australia, generates cash in their respective local currencies and fluctuations in exchange rates can have a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue (which is a substantial source for servicing our significant debt obligations at the parent entity level, as well as a source for making principal payments) and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the U.S., and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. From June 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the Canadian and Australian dollars (“CAD” and “AUD,” respectively) declined by 17% and 28%, respectively, relative to the USD, and this has had a material adverse impact on amounts of USDs transferred to U.S. parent entities. Conversely, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the CAD and AUD increased by 11% and 35%, respectively. Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the U.S., and the cash transfers from these foreign operating subsidiaries to the U.S. parent, a strengthening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to service or repay our consolidated indebtedness and obligations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions. The exposure of our income from operations to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is reduced in part because a majority of the costs that we incur in connection with our foreign operations are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. In 2002, agreements with certain subsidiaries were put in place for repayment of a portion of the investments and advances made to those subsidiaries. As we anticipate repayment in the foreseeable future of these amounts, we recognize the unrealized gains and losses in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on the consolidated statements of operations, and depending upon changes in future currency rates, such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage could adversely affect our ability to attract and to retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The local, long-distance, Internet, broadband, digital subscriber lines (“DSL”), data and hosting and wireless telecommunications industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger business participants. Prices in the long-distance industry have continued to decline in recent years and, as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. The most significant competitors in our primary markets include: • United States: AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., Qwest Communications International Inc. and other incumbent carriers, cable companies, including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc., other competitive local exchange carriers, including PaeTec Communications, Inc., Time Warner Telecom Inc., XO Communications Services, Inc. and Frontier Communications Corp., independent VoIP providers, including Vonage Holdings Corp and Cbeyond, Inc., wireless carriers in the U.S., including Verizon 27 Table of Contents Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., Sprint Corp., T-Mobile USA Inc., MetroPCS Communications, Inc. and Leap Wireless International, Inc., and web based companies, including Skype Technologies S.A. and Google Inc.; • Australia: Telstra Corporation Limited (“Telstra”), SingTel Optus Pty Limited, Telecom New Zealand Limited, iiNet Limited, SP Telemedia Limited (known as TPG), Macquarie Telecom Group Ltd. and other smaller national and regional service providers and resellers.; and • Canada: TELUS Corporation (“TELUS”), BCE Inc. (“Bell Canada”), MTS Allstream, Inc., Saskatchewan Telecommunications, wireless providers, including Rogers Communications Inc. (“Rogers”), TELUS, Bell Canada, Bragg Communications Inc., COGECO Inc., Quebecor Inc. and Shaw Communications, Inc., cable companies, and other service providers and resellers including Globalive Communications Corp. in Canada. Customers frequently change local, long-distance, wireless, broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VoIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, customers generally can switch carriers and service offerings at their discretion with little notice to us. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences affect markets outside the U.S., competition in non-U.S. markets is increasing to a level similar to the intense competition in the U.S. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers and lower debt-leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. Several long-distance carriers in the U.S., Canada and Australia and the major wireless carriers and cable companies have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates or unlimited plans for domestic and international calls. This strategy could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, which we set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Given strong competition in delivering individual and bundled local, wireless, broadband, DSL, VoIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand these parts of our business. We have accelerated initiatives to become an integrated wireline, wireless and broadband service provider in order to counter competitive pricing pressures initiated by large incumbent providers in certain of the principal markets where we operate and to stem the loss of certain of our wireline voice and dial-up ISP customers to our competitors’ bundled wireline, wireless and broadband service offerings. Our primary competitors include incumbent telecommunications providers, cable companies and other ISPs that have a significant national or international presence. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. We are experiencing increased competition from traditional telecommunications carriers, cable companies and other new entrants that have expanded into the market for broadband, VoIP, Internet services, data and hosting and traditional voice services. In addition, regulatory developments may impair our ability to compete. Therefore, future operations involving these individual or bundled services may not succeed in the competitive environment, and we (1) may not be able to expand successfully; (2) may experience margin pressure; (3) may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; (4) may have limited resources to 28 Table of Contents develop and to market the new services; and (5) have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will reverse revenue declines in our traditional long-distance voice and dial-up ISP services or maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate sufficient income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. Our repositioning in the marketplace and intense domestic and international competition in these services places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our repositioning in the marketplace to focus on Growth Services segments of the telecom market, including broadband, IP-based voice, local, wireless, data and data center solutions may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and increase demand on our systems and controls. However, the local and long-distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless industries are intensely competitive, present relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and involve numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, and cable television companies, who could offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television services, and electric power utilities, who could offer voice and broadband Internet access. For example, the U.S. and many other countries have committed to open their telecommunications markets to competition pursuant to an agreement under the World Trade Organization which began on January 1, 1998. Further, in the U.S., the major landline incumbent carriers (including AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) have for many years also provided long-distance services, and previously independent long-distance providers (including AT&T Inc. and MCI Inc.) have been acquired by the landline incumbents. In addition, many entities, including large cable television companies (including Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charter Communications, Inc.) and utilities have been allowed to enter both the local service and long-distance telecommunications markets. To manage our repositioning effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to expand its coverage and capacity including the data centers expansion, maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, evolve our support and billing systems and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, support, sales and marketing, administrative resources, network infrastructure, maintenance and upgrading. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required, such as our need to off-shore certain functions. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting, which could impact debt covenant compliance. We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses which may hinder our ability to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. As of June 30, 2009, Predecessor had an accumulated deficit of $1.06 billion. Predecessor incurred net losses of $10.6 million in 2004, $149.2 million in 2005, $238.0 million in 2006 and $25.0 million in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Predecessor recognized net income of $15.7 million, of which $32.7 million of revenue was related to the positive impact of foreign currency transaction gains. Even with the elimination of our significant accumulated deficit and the reduction in indebtedness through our recent reorganization under Chapter 11, future losses may continue. We cannot assure you that we will recognize net income in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or sufficient operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. 29 Table of Contents A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based local, wireless, broadband, data and long-distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets and regulatory requirements could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, for the year ended December 31, 2009, derived about 82% of our net revenues by providing services outside of the U.S. In international markets, we are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers: (1) are likely to modify and/or control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; (2) enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; (3) generally offer a wider range of product and services; and (4) have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and longer term customer and supplier agreements on preferred and better terms. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to their switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: (1) obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate in the new service areas; (2) obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or (3) market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes or uncertainties in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs and duties. Given the nature of our operations and uncertainties in, or the absence of definitive regulations or interpretations concerning, the taxation of (including value added tax of) certain aspects of our business in certain international jurisdictions in which we conduct (or may be construed by such authorities as conducting or deriving taxable) operations or revenue, we may become subject to assessments for taxes (which may include penalties and interest) which are either unexpected, or have not been accrued for in our historical results of operations or both. This circumstance occurred during March 2008, when we concluded it was probable that assessments would be forthcoming concerning past European prepaid calling services operations, and it is possible that tax uncertainties concerning our international operations could arise in the future. Such developments, in addition to the other uncertainties and risks described above, could have adverse consequences that might result in restatement of prior period results of operations and unanticipated liquidity demands. Additional operating risks and uncertainties in operating in international markets include trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the U.S. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VoIP, data and hosting and wireless broadband through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization 30 Table of Contents of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VoIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. As the overall market for domestic and international long-distance and dial-up Internet services continues to decline in favor of Internet-based, wireless, and broadband communications, revenue contribution from our Traditional Services, which for the year ended December 31, 2009 comprised 43% of total revenue, has been consequently declining. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions or do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services, including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. The rapid enhancement of VoIP and Internet technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long-distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VoIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long-distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VoIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VoIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the U.S. and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VoIP initiatives. Our ability effectively to retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VoIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VoIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others and the requirements to provide enhanced 911 emergency services (“E911”). As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage, maintain and upgrade a reliable and cost-effective network infrastructure, including data hosting centers. In addition, we rely on third party equipment and service vendors to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet, data and hosting and wireless services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary aspects of our network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. If we are not able to use and protect intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although our existing intellectual property licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available 31 Table of Contents by the companies providing the licenses and, individually, their costs and terms are not material to our business, the loss of, or our inability to maintain existing licenses, could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated and could cause service disruption to our customers. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business. We also generally rely on indemnification provisions in licensing contracts to protect against claims of infringement regarding the licensed technology, which indemnification could be affected by, among other things, the financial strength of the licensor. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of K. Paul Singh, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or the services of our other key personnel, or our inability to attract and retain additional key management, technical and sales personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 due to a material weakness that existed in our internal control over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 due to a material weakness that existed in our internal control over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss). If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. In evaluating the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our management identified as of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 a control deficiency in our controls and procedures over accounting for income taxes and as of December 31, 2009 a control deficiency over accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss) and management concluded in each case that the control deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting constituted a material weakness. These deficiencies represented a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting on the basis that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our interim or annual financial statements could occur and would not be prevented or detected by our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 identified a material weakness in internal control related to a lack of documentation, insufficient historical analysis and ineffective reconciliation procedures, primarily caused by lack of personnel with adequate expertise in income tax accounting matters. Since identifying the material weakness concerning accounting for income taxes, we have undertaken the following initiatives to remediate the material weakness – hired a new Corporate Tax Director and a Manager of Taxation in our Canadian operating unit; established functioning procedures for foreign finance personnel to communicate regularly any tax concerns with the Corporate Tax Director; purchased and implemented tax provision preparation software; and developed quarterly tax documentation formats. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2009 our management concluded the controls surrounding accounting for income taxes are effective. In March 2010, the Company determined that an error existed related to accounting for foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on certain inter-company balances. Specifically, this error related to activity in the third quarter 2009 resulting in the Company amending its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. This amendment restated our financial statements in order to correct a non-cash error relating to accounting for unrealized foreign currency transaction losses associated with certain inter-company balances that were 32 Table of Contents permanent in nature and, therefore, should have been recorded as currency translation adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the equity section of the balance sheet. Since identifying this, we have undertaken initiatives to remediate this material weakness by (a) performing additional recalculations and analysis of the foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; (b) implementing an improved process for assessing the reasonableness of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded on these intercompany balances; and (c) confirming intercompany settlements related to these balances at a transactional level. Notwithstanding such efforts, the material weakness concerning currency transaction will not be remediated until the new controls operate for a sufficient period of time and are tested to enable management to conclude that the controls are effective. As a result, as of December 31, 2009 management concluded that the control deficiency concerning foreign currency transactions represented a material weakness. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” herein. Our management will consider the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and necessary changes to such controls. However, we can not assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in future errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Financial information in our future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from periods before July 1, 2009 due to our Reorganization and the application of fresh-start accounting to our financial statements. Upon our Holding Companies’ emergence from Chapter 11 on July 1, 2009, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 852, Reorganizations, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the Reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with ASC 805, Business Combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting, our accumulated deficit ($1.06 billion at June 30, 2009) has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our future consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated condensed statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the Reorganization. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LIQUIDITY NEEDS AND DEBT SECURITIES We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our 33 Table of Contents ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such disposition may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. A significant portion of our future cash flow may need to be committed to repurchasing or redeeming certain outstanding debt prior to its stated maturity, rather than for use in our business operations. If Group and its “restricted subsidiaries” have Excess Cash Flow (as defined below) for any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, then the issuers of the 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2016 (the “13% Notes”) are obligated to jointly apply an amount equal to 50% of such Excess Cash Flow for such period (the “Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount”) and to make a joint offer to the holders of the 13% Notes to repurchase all or a portion of such notes as Units with an aggregate repurchase price in cash equal to the Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount (an “Excess Cash Flow Offer”). Excess Cash Flow means for any such fiscal year (a) the excess of (1) consolidated EBITDA over (2) the sum, subject to certain exceptions, represented by: (i) capital expenditures; (ii) consolidated interest expense paid in cash; (iii) income and franchise taxes paid in cash; and (iv) reductions in certain indebtedness minus (b) the absolute value of negative Excess Cash Flow, if any. See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Within 110 days after the end of any fiscal year with respect to which an Excess Cash Flow Offer is required, an offer must be sent to each holder of 13% Notes stating the repurchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. With respect to each Excess Cash Flow Offer, the Issuers are entitled to reduce the applicable Excess Cash Flow Offer Amount by an amount equal to the sum of (x) the aggregate repurchase price paid for any 13% Notes repurchased by the Issuers in the open market or privately negotiated transaction (and, in each case, cancelled by the Issuers) and (y) the aggregate redemption price paid for any 13% Notes redeemed pursuant to one or more optional redemptions, subject to certain limitations. If our outstanding 14 ¼% Senior Subordinated Secured Notes due May 2013 (the “14 ¼% Notes”) have not been refinanced in accordance with the terms of its indenture on or prior to January 21, 2013, then the Issuers will be required to redeem the 13% Notes in advance of the 14 ¼% Notes scheduled maturity at a price equal to the then applicable optional redemption price. If such early redemption of the 13% Notes are required or an Excess Cash Flow Offer is made, there can be no assurance that the Issuers will have available funds sufficient to pay for such redemption or for the Excess Cash Flow purchase price for all the 13% Notes that might be delivered by holders seeking to accept the Excess Cash Flow Offer. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. We must repay or refinance the 14 ¼% Notes prior to the maturity of the 13% Notes. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon us. The maturity of the 14 ¼% Notes is earlier than the maturity of the 13% Notes. While we expect to refinance the 14 ¼% Notes, we may not be able to do so or refinancing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete a refinancing of the 14 ¼% Notes prior to their maturity is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. For example, if disruption in the financial markets were to occur at the time that we intended to refinance the 14 ¼% Notes, we might be restricted in our ability to refinance that indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance the 14 ¼% Notes our alternatives would consist of negotiating an extension of such indebtedness with the holders and seeking or raising new capital. If we were unsuccessful, the holders of the 14 ¼% Notes could demand repayment of the indebtedness owed to them on May 20, 2013. As a result, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on such indebtedness would be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to repurchase the 14¼% Notes or 13% Notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of certain specific kinds of change of control events, we (or our subsidiaries) will be required to jointly offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus, without duplication, accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that they will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of all notes delivered by holders seeking to exercise their repurchase rights, particularly as that change of control may trigger a similar repurchase requirement for, or result in an event of a default under a debt indenture and may also constitute a cross-default on other indebtedness existing at that time. In addition, certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalization that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a “Change of Control” under the indenture. Our indentures governing our 14¼% Notes and 13% Notes contain significant operating and financial restrictions which may limit our ability and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to operate their business. The indentures governing our 14 ¼% Notes and 13% Notes contain significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions limit the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • create liens on certain assets to secure debt; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions; • purchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain investments; • transfer or sell assets; • agree to restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us or the issuers; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or an issuer’s assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit the ability of us and our subsidiaries to finance future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. We may be required to take action to reduce their debt or act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to do so. We may not be able to satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt could result in a default under such debt, which could lead to that debt becoming immediately due and payable and, if such debt is secured, foreclosure on our assets that secure that obligation. A default under a debt instrument could, in turn, result in a default under other obligations and result in other creditors accelerating the payment of other obligations and foreclosing on asset security such debt, if any. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial conditions and liquidity. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including debt secured by the collateral that secures our 14¼% Notes and 13% Notes, as well as other assets that do not secure such notes. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with those restrictions could be substantial. In addition, if we are able to designate some of the restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the notes as unrestricted subsidiaries, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted 35 Table of Contents subsidiaries may not engage. If we incur any additional secured debt that ranks equally with the 13% Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the 13% Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceedings. Adding new debt to current debt levels could intensify the related risks that we now face. The issuance of the 13% Notes may subject us to additional currency exchange risks. The 13% Notes were issued and paid for, and the interest to be paid on those notes will be paid, in U.S. dollars. However, the Canadian issuer of such notes receives revenues primarily in Canadian dollars (“CAD”). As a result, the financial condition of the Canadian issuer might be materially adversely affected if the U.S. dollar appreciates against the CAD. From time to time, if we determine it is appropriate and advisable to do so, we may seek to lessen the effect of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION We are subject to constantly changing regulation, including the imposition of fees and taxes, the potential adverse effects which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that domestic, foreign or international regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, growth and financial performance. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Many regulatory actions are underway or are being contemplated by governmental agencies. In the U.S., the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and associated Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulations, requires that every provider of interstate telecommunications carrier contribute, on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, to federal universal service mechanisms established by the FCC, which affects our cost of providing services. At present, these contributions are calculated based on contributors’ interstate and international revenue derived from U.S. end users for telecommunications or telecommunications services, as those terms are defined under FCC regulations. AT&T Inc. filed a “Petition for Immediate Commission Action” on July 10, 2009, requesting that the FCC adopt a new mechanism for calculating federal universal service fund contribution that would be applicable to all contributors, including us. The specific proposal, which has been pending at the FCC for some time, is to determine contributions to the Universal Service Fund (“USF”) based on “assessable telephone numbers” rather than interstate and international revenues. We cannot predict whether the FCC will adopt this or some other contribution methodology, nor can we predict the potential impact on our business at this time. But a revised contribution methodology could increase our contribution obligation, including increasing our contribution disproportionately compared to some of our competitors. In such event, we may need to either raise the total amount of our consumer’s bills, potentially making us less competitive with other providers of communications services, or reduce our profit margins. Increasingly, laws, regulations or rulings that apply to traditional telephone services are being extended to commerce and communications services that utilize Internet Protocol, including VoIP. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial decisions or regulations concerning Internet Protocol products and services may have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulation may be targeted 36 Table of Contents towards, among other things, fees, charges, surcharges, and taxation of VoIP services, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, filing requirements, consumer protection, public safety issues like E911, the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”), the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services, any of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. The rules that the FCC has already extended to interconnected VoIP providers include: • rules with respect to the use of customer proprietary network information (“CPNI”) requiring VoIP providers to adhere to particular customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of pre-defined limits and when using CPNI for marketing purposes, and requiring VoIP providers to take certain steps to verify a customer’s identity before releasing any CPNI over the telephone or the Internet, and to report unauthorized disclosures of CPNI; • the disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act, which have been interpreted by the FCC to require interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to the telecommunications relay services fund and offer 711 abbreviated dialing access to relay services, and to ensure that VoIP services are accessible to persons with disabilities, if reasonably achievable; • rules requiring VoIP providers to configure VoIP networks in a manner that facilitates lawful surveillance under CALEA; • rules requiring VoIP providers to permit customers to retain their assigned telephone numbers when changing carriers including newly established requirements to process customer carrier changes on an expedited basis; • rules requiring VoIP providers to provide access to E911 emergency services on terms generally similar to those provided by traditional landline carriers; and • rules requiring VoIP providers to pay regulatory fees based on reported interstate and international revenues. In Canada the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (“CRTC”) has extended rules to interconnected VoIP providers that are similar to certain of those described above for the U.S., which rules are also subject to change from time to time. In addition, the CRTC is currently conducting public proceedings on whether to recover its operating fees from all telecommunications service providers, including resellers such as us, rather than only from Canadian carriers; and on whether and how to redefine the Basic Service Objectives, for whose subsidization we and other telecom service providers are required to contribute a proportion of our Canadian telecom service revenues. The increasing growth of the VoIP market and popularity of VoIP products and services heighten the risk that governmental agencies will continue to increase the level of regulation applied to VoIP and the Internet. Proposed future U.S. federal income tax legislation could impact the Company’s effective tax rate. In May 2009, President Obama’s administration announced proposed future tax legislation that could substantially modify the rules governing the U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. These potential changes include, but are not limited to: (1) limitations on the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings; (2) limitations on the ability to claim and utilize foreign tax credits; and (3) deferral of various tax deductions until non-U.S. earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Each of these proposals would be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. Many details of the proposal remain unknown, although if any of these proposals are enacted into law they could materially impact our effective tax rate. 37 Table of Contents The applicability of changes in tax policy to our services will increase their cost to consumers thereby decreasing our competitive price advantage over the competing alternatives available to the customer. Further, we may be subject to liabilities for past taxes, surcharges, fees, penalties and interest. Unlike those of our competitors who offer traditional landline or wireless services, with respect to our VoIP services, we currently do not collect or remit state or municipal taxes, fees or surcharges on the retail charges we collect from our customers, except where we have determined we are required to do so based on tax law. In some jurisdictions we also did not collect and remit 911 surcharges. In some instances, we have received inquiries or demands from state and municipalities for taxes, fees or surcharges, including, in some instances, 911 fees. Depending on the state, statute or municipal code, we have maintained that these taxes, fees, or surcharges, including 911 fees, do not apply to us. However, recent changes in the law, at the federal, state and local level, may change our legal obligations. Accordingly, some taxes, fees or surcharges, including 911 fees, could apply to us retroactively and we could be subject to penalties and interest. Other international governmental regulation could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive and may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. We cannot assure you that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in the future. International regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include: • ongoing regulatory proceedings regarding efforts by Telstra in Australia to increase prices and charges and to deny access to essential facilities and services needed by us to compete; • the ultimate outcome of the process launched by the Australian government to help fund the construction of a new national broadband network, including whether and the terms upon which (a) we will have access to such network, and (b) the duration for which the copper wire based last mile infrastructure we use to furnish broadband services using our DSLAM network infrastructure will be continued; • a regulatory reform package recently announced by the Australian government that, if enacted, will (a) separate Telstra’s retail arm from its wholesale business (via either functional or structural separation); and (b) provide the ACCC with greater powers to set access prices; • general changes in access charges and contribution payments could adversely affect our cost of providing long-distance, wireless, broadband, VoIP, local and other services; and • regulatory proceedings in Canada determining whether and the extent to which regulation should mandate access to networks and interconnection including intra-exchange transport services which we use to interconnect our DSLAM collocation sites and high speed access to residential and business services. Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations and prospects. We may be exposed to significant liability resulting from our noncompliance with FCC orders regarding E911 services. FCC rules require VoIP providers interconnected to the public switched telephone network to provide E911 service in a manner similar to traditional wireline carriers. This requirement took effect as of November 2005. Like many interconnected VoIP providers, Lingo, Inc. (“Lingo”), a subsidiary of ours which sells such services, was able to meet this deadline for some but not all of its customers. We sought a waiver from the FCC asking for additional time to complete deploying our E911 service. The FCC has not yet addressed our waiver petition. As 38 Table of Contents of December 31, 2009, approximately 99% of our Lingo customers were equipped with E911 service as required by the FCC’s rules. If and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC order regarding E911 services we may be subject to fines, penalties, cease and desist orders prohibiting Lingo from providing service on the federal and state levels or any combination of the foregoing. The FCC rules also require interconnected VoIP providers to distribute stickers and labels informing customers of the limitations on their emergency services as compared with traditional landline E911 service, as well as to notify and obtain affirmative acknowledgement from customers that they are aware of those limitations. The FCC’s Enforcement Bureau released an order providing that the Enforcement Bureau will not pursue enforcement against interconnected VoIP providers that have received affirmative acknowledgement from at least 90% of their subscribers. We have received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers, and, therefore, believe that we have effectively satisfied this requirement. Lingo’s current E911 services are more limited than the 911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of emergency assistance. Despite the fact that we have notified our customers and received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers that they understand the differences between the access Lingo provides to emergency services as compared to those available through traditional wireline telephony providers, affected parties may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of certain failures to comply with the FCC mandated E911 service for interconnected VoIP providers. Our resulting liability could be significant. On June 1, 2007, the FCC released Notice of Proposed Rulemaking considering the imposition of additional E911 obligations on interconnected VoIP providers. Specifically, the FCC is considering requiring interconnected VoIP providers to determine automatically the physical location of their customer rather than allowing customers to manually register their location. Moreover, the notice includes a tentative conclusion that all interconnected VoIP service providers that allow customers to use their service in more than one location (nomadic VoIP service providers such as us) must utilize automatic location technology that meets the same accuracy standards applicable to providers of mobile phone service providers. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding or its impact on us. In July 2008, the “New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008” was signed into law. Previously, interconnected VoIP providers, like us, did not have the same protection from potential liability as applied wireline or wireless 911 emergency calling services. This law provides public safety entities, interconnected VoIP providers and others involved in handling 911 calls the same liability protections when handling 911 calls from interconnected VoIP users as from mobile or wired telephone service users. In October 2008, the FCC issued regulations implementing the provisions of the new law that require other entities involved in the provision of E911 services to make the technical capabilities used in such services available to VoIP providers, like us, on reasonable terms. The applicability of the liability protection to 911 calling services that do not conform to the FCC’s rules is unclear. Additionally, any liability associated with 911 call placement and handling prior to the enactment of this new law would not be covered. Therefore, while this law provides significant liability protection to interconnected VoIP providers such as us, we may still face significant and material liability with respect to any past, present or future failures of our E911 service to function properly. We may be similarly exposed to liability in Canada in connection with emergency services associated with our VoIP services. A description of our regulatory obligations associated with our VoIP services in Canada is set forth under “Regulation.” The rates we pay to interconnected telecommunications carriers in the U.S. may increase, which may reduce our profitability or increase the retail price of our service. The FCC is considering reform of the methodology that regulated telecommunications carriers use to determine the appropriate payments for the exchange of traffic that is necessary to complete telephone calls to 39 Table of Contents the traditional telephone network. The result of the FCC’s proceeding may be an increase in the rates we pay to such carriers to send traffic to or receive traffic from the traditional telephone network, which would increase our costs. Such a cost increase may result in us increasing the retail price of our service, which may make us less competitive in the communications marketplace, or may reduce our profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. We may not be able to comply with recent FCC requirements regarding the transfer of telephone numbers to other providers when customers change providers. In 2008, the FCC clarified that interconnected VoIP providers, such as us, are subject to its rules regarding transferring the telephone numbers of customers that choose to obtain service from other providers, including both interconnected VoIP providers and traditional carriers. In 2009, the FCC released an order that reduces the amount of time within which voice service providers must transfer a telephone number to a new provider. To comply with these new rules, we will likely have to implement new procedures and may have to increase staffing levels. Should this occur, we may need to increase the price of our retail service offering, which may make us less competitive with other providers of communications services or reduce our profitability. Should we not be able to comply with the order, we may be subject to fines, penalties, or cease and desist orders. At this time, we cannot accurately predict the full impact of this order on our business, as the industry is still developing the technical standards that will govern the new expedited number transfer procedures. The FCC or federal courts may allow states in the U.S. to subject our service to state universal service fund obligations. Several states have attempted to require nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state universal service funds. One state, Nebraska, engaged in litigation with a provider of interconnected VoIP services similar to ours. The U.S. District Court for Nebraska issued a preliminary injunction on March 3, 2008, finding that the Nebraska Public Service Commission did not have jurisdiction to require universal service fund contributions from nomadic interconnected VoIP providers. A panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the U.S. District court ruling on May 1, 2009. Subsequently, the Nebraska Public Service Commission requested a rehearing that the Court denied on June 5, 2009. On the basis of this litigation, we do not believe that existing law allows states to subject us to state universal service fund contribution obligations. On July 16, 2009, Kansas and Nebraska filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaratory ruling that states are not preempted from requiring nomadic interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to state universal service funds. The petition also seeks a retroactive ruling finding that states have been able to collect such contributions for a time period that is not clearly defined in the petition. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding nor its impact on our business. If we were required to pay retroactively into state-level universal service funds, that could have a material negative impact on our earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 