Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: Ticketmaster Entertainment's anticipated financial performance, business prospects and, anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which Ticketmaster Entertainment businesses operate, new products, services and related strategies and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect Ticketmaster Entertainment's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of our management as of the date of this report. Ticketmaster does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. We describe our business risk factors below. RISKS RELATING TO THE PENDING MERGER WITH LIVE NATION Our entry into a merger agreement with Live Nation may have adverse impacts. On February 10, 2009, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Live Nation. Consummation of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory (including antitrust) approvals, and approval by our stockholders and the stockholders of Live Nation. In addition, Live Nation's and our obligation to complete the merger is conditioned on our obtaining the consent of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to amend certain of the terms of that agreement. It is not certain that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as provided for under the merger agreement, or at all. We face risks and uncertainties due both to the pendency of the merger as well as the potential failure to consummate the merger, including: •We may not realize any or all of the potential benefits of the merger, including the substantial synergies that could result from combining the resources of Ticketmaster Entertainment and Live Nation; 10 Table of Contents •We will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the merger even if it is not consummated; •If the merger agreement is terminated before we complete the merger, under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee to Live Nation in the amount of $15 million plus Live Nation's expenses; •The pendency of the merger could have an adverse impact on the Company's relationships with employees, customers and suppliers, and prospective customers or other third parties may delay or decline entering into agreements with us as a result of the announcement of the proposed merger; •One of our key clients, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, "AEG") has sent a letter to us advising us of AEG's belief that any transaction involving Ticketmaster Entertainment and Live Nation would permit AEG, at its option, to terminate the ticketing agreement under which Ticketmaster Entertainment and its subsidiaries provide primary ticketing services to AEG; and •The attention of our management and employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. For more risks and uncertainties associated with the merger with Live Nation, please see the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Ticketmaster Entertainment and Live Nation intend to file with the SEC with respect to the proposed transaction. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RECENTLY-COMPLETED SPIN-OFF FROM IAC We may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate effectively as a separate public entity and have and will incur additional costs related to operating as an independent company. As a result of our spin-off from IAC, IAC no longer has any obligation to provide financial, operational or organizational assistance to us, other than limited services pursuant to a transition services agreement that we entered into in connection with the spin-off with IAC and the three other companies spun-off from IAC at substantially the same time as the spin-off. As a separate public entity, we are subject to, and responsible for, regulatory compliance, including periodic public filings with the SEC and compliance with NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, as well as generally applicable tax and accounting rules. The obligations of being a public company, including substantial public reporting and investor relations obligations, have required and will require additional expenditures, place new demands on our management and have required and will require the hiring of additional personnel. We may need to implement additional systems that require new expenditures in order to adequately function as a public company. We have endeavored to make the changes necessary to successfully operate as an independent public entity; however, this is an ongoing process that may present unanticipated challenges and costs that could have an adverse effect on us. As a newly public company, we are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the end of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, and, accordingly, this Annual Report does not include a report of management's assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by the SEC. If our management is unable to conclude that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to deliver an attestation report opining that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If our spin-off from IAC, or one or more of the spin-offs of three other IAC subsidiaries from IAC that occurred on the same date, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Ticketmaster Entertainment may be subject to significant tax liabilities. In connection with the spin-offs of Ticketmaster and three other IAC subsidiaries (the "Spincos"), IAC received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as transactions that are generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. IAC also received an opinion of counsel regarding certain aspects of the transaction that were not covered by the private letter ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that one or more of the spin-offs should be treated as a taxable distribution if it determines that any of the representations, statements or assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the IRS ruling. In addition, if any of the representations, statements or assumptions upon which the opinion of counsel was based were or become inaccurate, the opinion may be invalid. If any of the spin-offs were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then IAC would incur material income tax liabilities for which Ticketmaster Entertainment could be liable. Under applicable federal income tax rules, we are severally liable for any federal income taxes imposed on IAC with respect to taxable periods during which we were a member of IAC's consolidated federal income tax return group, including the period in which the spin-offs were consummated. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement that we entered into with IAC and the other Spincos, the Company generally is required to indemnify IAC and the other Spincos for any taxes resulting from the spin-off to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by the Company described in the covenants in the Tax Sharing Agreement, (ii) any acquisition of equity securities or assets of the Company, or (iii) any breach by the Company of any representation or covenant contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or tax opinions. Corresponding indemnification provisions also apply to the other Spincos. We are entitled to indemnification from IAC, among other things, if, we are liable for, or otherwise required to make a payment in respect of, a spin-off tax liability for which we are not responsible under the Tax Sharing Agreement and, if applicable, are unable to collect from the Spinco responsible for such liability under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Our ability to collect under these indemnity provisions would depend on the financial position of the indemnifying party. Certain transactions in IAC, Ticketmaster Entertainment, or other Spinco equity securities could cause one or more of the spin-offs to be taxable to IAC and may give rise to indemnification obligations of the Company under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that any of the spin-offs would be taxable to IAC if it is part of a "plan or series of related transactions" pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in IAC or a Spinco (including Ticketmaster Entertainment). Acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of a spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. These rules limit our ability during the two-year period following the spin-off to enter into certain transactions that might be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take such actions for a period of 25 months from the day after the date of our spin-off from IAC. Entering into the merger agreement with Live Nation did 12 Table of Contents not violate these restrictions because, prior to entering into the agreement, the Company provided IAC with an opinion of counsel contemplated by the Tax Sharing Agreement. In addition to actions of IAC and the Spincos (including Ticketmaster Entertainment), certain transactions that are outside their control and therefore not subject to the restrictive covenants contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, such as a sale or disposition of the stock of IAC or the stock of a Spinco by certain persons that own five percent or more of any class of stock of IAC or a Spinco could have a similar effect on the tax-free status of a spin-off as transactions to which IAC or a Spinco is a party. As of the date of the spin-off, Liberty Media Corporation and certain of its affiliates, in the aggregate, owned IAC stock representing approximately 61.6% by vote and 29.9% by value and, immediately subsequent to the spin-off, owned stock of each Spinco representing approximately 29.9% by vote and value. Accordingly, in evaluating our ability to engage in certain transactions involving our equity securities, we will need to take into account the activities of Liberty Media Corporation and its affiliates. As a result of these rules, even if each spin-off otherwise qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, transactions involving Spinco or IAC equity securities (including transactions by certain significant stockholders) could cause IAC to recognize taxable gain with respect to the stock of the Spinco as described above. Although the restrictive covenants and indemnification provisions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement are intended to minimize the likelihood that such an event will occur, one or more of the spin-offs may become taxable to IAC as a result of transactions in IAC or Spinco equity securities. As discussed previously, Ticketmaster Entertainment could be liable for such taxes under the Tax Sharing Agreement or under applicable federal income tax rules. In connection with the planned Live Nation merger, the Company has received a tax opinion from outside counsel that the transaction as contemplated in the definitive merger agreement will not have an adverse tax effect on the spin-off. However, the IRS may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel and determine that the Live Nation merger causes the spin-off of Ticketmaster Entertainment to be taxable to IAC. Were this to occur, Ticketmaster Entertainment could be required to make significant indemnification payments to IAC. Our securities may not qualify for placement in investment indices. In addition, our securities may fail to meet the investment guidelines of institutional investors. In either case, these factors may negatively impact the price of our securities and may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of securities. Some of the holders of IAC securities prior to the spin-off were index funds tied to NASDAQ or other stock or investment indices, or institutional investors bound by various investment guidelines. Companies are generally selected for investment indices, and in some cases selected by institutional investors, based on factors such as market capitalization, industry, trading liquidity and financial condition. As an independent company, we have a lower market capitalization than IAC had prior to the spin-off. As a result, our securities may not qualify for those investment indices. The spin-off agreements were not the result of arm's length negotiations. The agreements that we entered into with IAC and the other Spincos in connection with the spin-offs, including the separation and distribution agreement, tax sharing agreement, employee matters agreement and transition services agreement, were established by IAC, in consultation with the Spincos, with the intention of maximizing the value to current IAC's shareholders. Accordingly, the terms for us may not be as favorable as would have resulted from negotiations among unrelated third parties. 13 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Live Entertainment Industry and General Economic Trends—Our success depends, in significant part, on entertainment, sporting and leisure events and factors adversely affecting such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Through our Ticketing segment, we sell tickets to live entertainment, sporting and leisure events at arenas, stadiums, theaters and other facilities. Through our Artist Services segment, we provide artist management services to nearly 200 clients, and derive significant revenues from touring and live concerts by these clients. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are directly affected by the popularity, frequency and location of such events. Ticket sales are sensitive to fluctuations in the number and pricing of entertainment, sporting and leisure events and activities offered by promoters, teams and facilities, and adverse trends in the entertainment, sporting and leisure event industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Ticketing segment relies on third parties to create and perform live entertainment, sporting and leisure events and to price tickets to such events. Accordingly, our success depends, in part, upon the ability of these third parties to correctly anticipate public demand for particular events and the prices that the public is willing to pay to attend such events, as well as the availability of popular artists, entertainers and teams. Similarly, our Artist Services segment could be adversely affected if the artists it represents do not tour or perform as frequently as anticipated, or if such tours or performances are not as widely attended by fans as anticipated due to changing tastes, general economic conditions or otherwise. In addition, general economic conditions, consumer trends, work stoppages, natural disasters and terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Entertainment-related expenditures are particularly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, which tend to decline during general economic downturns. Recent market conditions have been extremely volatile and unemployment rates have risen in recent months. As a result of these macroeconomic factors, it is reasonably possible that a continued worsening of the Company's results or domestic and global economic conditions could change certain estimates and assumptions that are significant to the underlying amounts included in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto. A protracted global recession could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third Party Relationships—We depend on relationships with clients and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent, in significant part, on the ability of our businesses to maintain and renew relationships with existing clients and to establish new client relationships. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, the substantial majority of our revenues from our Ticketing segment will be derived from online and offline sales of tickets. We also expect that revenues from primary ticketing services, which consist primarily of per ticket convenience charges and per order "order processing" fees, will continue to comprise the substantial majority of our consolidated revenues for our Ticketing segment. Securing the right to sell tickets depends, in substantial part, on the ability of our businesses to enter into, maintain and renew client contracts on favorable terms. Revenue attributable to our largest client, Live Nation (including its subsidiary, House of Blues), represented approximately 13% of our total revenue in 2008. This client relationship consisted of four agreements, two with Live Nation (a worldwide agreement (other than England, Scotland and Wales) that expired without renewal on December 31, 2008, and an agreement covering England, Scotland and Wales that expires on December 31, 2009) and two with House of Blues (a U.S. agreement that expires on December 31, 2009, and a Canadian agreement that expires on March 1, 2010). Revenue attributable to the worldwide agreement and the agreement covering England, Scotland and Wales represented 14 Table of Contents approximately 9% and 2%, respectively, of our total revenues in 2008. The worldwide agreement expired on December 31, 2008, and we anticipate that none of the other agreements will be renewed. Live Nation launched its own ticketing business in 2009 to ticket Live Nation events and has publicly announced that it intends to use its ticketing system to distribute tickets for third-party live events. In addition, as is typical of the artist management industry, certain of our arrangements with clients of our Artist Services segment are terminable at will by either party. The loss of key artists could negatively impact our business. While fees from management services represent slightly less than half the revenue of our Artist Service segment, and no individual client represents more than 10% of revenue from management services, the loss of a number of key artists could negatively impact our business. In addition, as the relationship between a manager and artist is highly personalized, the loss of a manager may also result in a loss in the artist represented by the manager, which could negatively impact our business. We cannot provide assurances that our businesses will be able to maintain other existing client contracts, or enter into or maintain new client contracts, on acceptable terms, if at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As explained above and in the below risk factor, the ticketing business is highly competitive. A number of competing national, regional, and local ticketing service providers are aggressively seeking to secure ticketing contracts from existing and potential Ticketmaster Entertainment clients. In addition, facilities, promoters and other potential clients are increasingly electing to self-ticket and/or distribute a growing number of tickets through client direct or other new channels, which could adversely impact the ability of our businesses to secure renewals and new client contracts. The non-renewal or termination of an agreement with a major client or multiple agreements with a combination of smaller clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Another important component of our success is the ability of our businesses to maintain existing and build new relationships with third party distribution channels and service providers, including providers of credit card processing and delivery services, as well as advertisers, among other parties. Any adverse changes in these relationships, including the inability of these parties to fulfill their obligations to our businesses for any reason, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition—The ticketing and artist services industries are highly competitive and competitors may win business away from us, which could adversely affect our financial performance. The ticketing industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from other national, regional and local primary ticketing service providers to secure new and retain existing clients on a continuous basis. Additionally, we face significant and increasing challenges from companies that sell self-ticketing systems and from clients who are increasingly choosing to self-ticket, through the integration of self-ticketing systems into their existing operations or the acquisition of primary ticket services providers and by increasing sales through facility box offices and season, subscription or group sales. We also face competition in the resale of tickets from online auction websites and resale marketplaces and from other ticket resellers with online distribution capabilities. The intense competition that we face in the ticketing industry could cause the volume of our ticketing services business to decline. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Moreover, as we expand into new lines of businesses (including in connection with our proposed merger with Live Nation), we may face direct competition, in the live music industry, with our prospective or current primary ticketing clients, who primarily include live event content providers (such as owners or operators of live event venues, promoters of concerts and sports teams, among others). This direct competition with our prospective or current primary ticketing 15 Table of Contents clients could result in a decline in the number of clients we have and a decline in the volume of our ticketing services business, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The artist services industry is also a highly competitive industry. There are numerous other music management companies and individual managers in the United States alone. We compete with these companies and individuals to discover new and emerging artists and to represent established acts. In addition, certain of our arrangements with clients of our artist services business are terminable at will by either party, leading to competition to retain those artists as clients. Competition is intense and may contribute to a decline in the volume of our artist services business, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our business to comply with these covenants, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our senior secured credit facilities and/or the indenture governing our Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •make loans, investments and capital expenditures; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; •sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and •consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. In addition, a failure on our part to maintain effective internal controls to measure compliance with these covenants could affect our ability to take corrective actions on a timely basis, and could result in our being in breach. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities and/or our other indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which constitutes a significant portion of our assets. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our other indebtedness. Our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. 16 Table of Contents Brand Recognition—Failure to maintain brand recognition and attract and retain customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maintaining and promoting the Ticketmaster and ticketmaster.com (and related international) brand names and, to a lesser extent, the ticketsnow.com, ticketweb.com, museumtix.com and tmvista.com (and related international) brand names, is critical to the ability of our businesses to attract consumers and business customers to their respective websites and other distribution channels. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase, given the growing number of online ticketing services due to relatively low barriers to entry to providing internet online content and services. Accordingly, we have spent, and expect to continue to spend, increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, branding and other marketing initiatives, including search engine optimization techniques and paid search engine marketing, neither of which may be successful or cost-effective. The failure of our businesses to maintain the recognition of their respective brands and to attract and retain consumers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions—We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses acquired by us may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. Our growth may depend upon future acquisitions and depends, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate historical acquisitions. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: •successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems; •retain the clients of the acquired businesses; •retain and integrate key personnel at acquired businesses; and •successfully manage acquisition-related resource demands on our management, operations and financial resources and/or those of acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any others encountered in connection with recent and future acquisitions and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more unfavorable events or trends, which could result in impairment charges, in addition to the $1.1 billion impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 as described in Note 4—Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Through certain recent (and potentially future) acquisitions, such as the acquisitions of TicketsNow, Emma Entertainment, Echo, GET ME IN! and Front Line, we entered (or may enter) into aspects of the ticketing and/or entertainment industries in which we had not previously participated directly. Acquisitions of this nature could adversely affect relationships with new and potential clients to the extent that clients view the interests of acquired businesses, or those of Ticketmaster Entertainment overall following the completion of any such acquisitions, as competing with or diverging from their own, which could adversely impact our relationships with its clients and its ability to attract new clients. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents International Presence and Expansion—Our businesses operate in international markets in which we have limited experience. Our businesses may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into existing, international markets. We provide services in various jurisdictions abroad through a number of brands and businesses that we own and operate, as well as through joint ventures, and expect to continue to expand our international presence. We face, and expect to continue to face, additional risks in the case of our existing and future international operations, including: •political instability and unfavorable economic conditions in the markets in which we currently have international operations or into which our brands and businesses may expand; •more restrictive or otherwise unfavorable government regulation of the live entertainment and ticketing industries, including the regulation of the provision of primary ticketing and ticket resale services, as well promotional, marketing and other related services, which could result in increased compliance costs and/or otherwise restrict the manner in which our businesses provide services and the amount of related fees charged for such services; •limitations on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, which would preclude us from building the brand recognition upon which we have come to rely in many jurisdictions; •limitations on the ability of foreign subsidiaries to repatriate profits or otherwise remit earnings to us; •adverse tax consequences; •limitations on technology infrastructure, which could limit our ability to migrate international operations to the Ticketmaster System, which would result in increased costs; •lower levels of internet usage, credit card usage and consumer spending in comparison to those in the United States; and •difficulties in managing operations and adapting to consumer desires due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with management and operational systems and infrastructures, including internal financial control and reporting systems and functions, staffing and managing foreign operations, which we might not be able to do effectively, or if so, on a cost-effective basis. Our ability to expand our international operations into new jurisdictions, or further into existing, jurisdictions will depend, in significant part, on our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, joint venture or other partners, and enter into arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, as well as our ability to make continued investments to maintain and grow existing international operations. If the revenues generated by international operations are insufficient to offset expenses incurred in connection with the maintenance and growth of these operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, in an effort to make international operations in one or more given jurisdictions profitable over the long term, significant additional investments that are not profitable over the short term could be required over a prolonged period. In addition, the ticketing industry in many jurisdictions abroad is more fragmented and local than it is in the United States. Our success in these markets will depend on the ability of our businesses to create economies of scale by consolidating within each market geographically, which would most likely occur over a prolonged period, during which significant investments in technology and infrastructure would be required. In the case of expansion through organic growth, we could face substantial barriers to entry in new markets, and barriers impeding expansion within existing, markets due primarily to the risks and concerns discussed above, among others. 18 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risks—We face risks and uncertainties related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that costs and prices for services are established in local currencies and adjusted to U.S. dollars based on then-current exchange rates, we will be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. After accounting for such fluctuations, we may be required to record significant gains or losses, the amount of which will vary based on then current exchange rates, which could cause our results to differ materially from expectations. As we continue to expand our international presence, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations will increase, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Future Capital Needs—We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. In connection with our spin-off from IAC, we incurred indebtedness of approximately $765 million and have since drawn down an additional $100 million from our revolving line of credit. Our future capital needs may include funds necessary to develop new services or to enhance our existing services, to complete acquisitions or to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. These arrangements and current market conditions may limit our ability to secure additional financing in the future on favorable terms or at all. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to develop new services or enhance our existing services, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Also, our ability to engage in significant equity issuances is limited in order to preserve the tax-free nature of the spin-off, as explained in the above risk factors. Volatile Stock Price—Our stock price has been volatile Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market on August 21, 2008 upon completion of the spin-off (and for a short period prior to that were listed on a "when-issued" basis). Since this time, the market price of our common stock has been volatile. It is likely that the market price of our common stock will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. We believe that future announcements concerning us, our competitors or our principal customers, including technological innovations, new product and service introductions, governmental regulations, litigation or changes in earnings estimated by us or analysts may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of outstanding common stock in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, in recent months the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations in equity securities of listed companies. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating 19 Table of Contents performance of those companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as armed hostilities, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, recessions, international currency fluctuations, or tariffs and other trade barriers, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards—Our businesses may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and industry standards. The e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. Our businesses may not be able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to changes in industry standards and customer requirements and preferences, and their failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the continued widespread adoption of new internet or telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require our businesses to modify or adapt their respective services or infrastructures. The failure of our businesses to modify or adapt their respective services or infrastructures in response to these trends could render their existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are currently in the process of migrating our international brands and businesses to the Ticketmaster System in an attempt to provide consistent and state-of-the-art services across our businesses and to reduce the cost and expense of maintaining multiple systems, which we may not be able to complete in a timely or cost-effective manner. Delays or difficulties in implementing the Ticketmaster System, as well as any new or enhanced systems, may limit our ability to achieve the desired results in a timely manner. Also, we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future, which could adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations—Our failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations as well as changing laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since our businesses sell tickets and provide related services to consumers through a number of different online and offline channels, they are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions in the United States and abroad, which are subject to change at any time. For example, our businesses conduct marketing activities via the telephone and/or through online marketing channels, which activities are governed by numerous federal and state regulations, such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, state telemarketing laws and the CAN-SPAM Act, among others. Our businesses are also subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to providers of primary ticketing and ticket resale services, which in some cases regulate the amount of transaction and other fees that they may be charged in connection with primary ticketing sales and/or the ticket prices that may be charged in the case of ticket resale services. New legislation of this nature is introduced from time to time in various (and is pending in certain) jurisdictions in which our businesses sell tickets and provide services. For example, several U.S. states and cities, Canadian provinces, the United Kingdom and European countries prohibit the resale of tickets at prices greater than the original face price (in the case of certain jurisdictions, without the consent of the venue) and/or prohibit the resale of tickets to certain types of events. Our various businesses have recently been named as defendants in several purported class action lawsuits and other actions and investigations alleging violations of these types of laws (See Item 3—Legal Proceedings). The failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations that restrict or otherwise 20 Table of Contents unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which our businesses provide primary ticketing and ticket resale services would require our businesses to change certain aspects of their business, operations and client relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. In addition, the application of various domestic and international sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to our historical and new products and services is subject to interpretation by applicable taxing authorities. While we believe that we are compliant with current tax provisions, taxing authorities may take a contrary position and such positions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, federal, state and local authorities and/or consumers commence investigations, inquiries or litigation with respect to compliance by us and our businesses with applicable consumer protection, advertising, unfair business practice, antitrust (and similar or related laws) and other laws. Our businesses have historically cooperated with authorities in connection with these investigations and have satisfactorily resolved each such material investigation, inquiry or litigation. Recently, several states and Canadian provinces have commenced investigations or inquiries regarding the relationship between Ticketmaster Entertainment and TicketsNow. We have incurred significant legal expenses in connection with the defense of governmental investigations and litigation in the past and will be required to incur additional expenses in the future regarding such investigations and litigation. In the case of antitrust (and similar or related) matters, any adverse outcome could limit or prevent our businesses from engaging in the ticketing business generally (or in a particular market thereof) or subject them to potential damage assessments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings for a description of certain current legal proceedings involving the Company. Maintenance of Systems and Infrastructure—Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructures may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructures, our businesses, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of our businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, disaster recovery planning by its nature cannot be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents In addition, any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Network security issues could lead to claims against us for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting our businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Privacy—The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from trying our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual Property—We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property (as applicable) as critical to our success. Our businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. 22 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use trade secret or copyrighted intellectual property without authorization which, if discovered, might require legal action to correct. In addition, third parties may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar intellectual properties. We have generally registered and continue to apply to register, or secure by contract when appropriate, our trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve and register domain names as we deem appropriate. We generally consider the protection of our trademarks to be important for purposes of brand maintenance and reputation. While we vigorously protect our trademarks, service marks and domain names, effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability of to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our businesses have been granted patents and/or have patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and/or various foreign patent authorities for various proprietary technologies and other inventions. We consider applying for patents or for other appropriate statutory protection when we develop valuable new or improved proprietary technologies or inventions are identified, and will continue to consider the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future proprietary technologies and inventions as circumstances may warrant. The status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, any patent application filed may not result in a patent being issued or existing or future patents may not be adjudicated valid by a court or be afforded adequate protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, third parties may create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents that we own. Likewise, the issuance of a patent to us does not mean that our processes or inventions will not be found to infringe upon patents or other rights previously issued to third parties. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Key Employees—Failure to attract and retain key employees could adversely impact our business. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain talented executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing, and support positions. Our businesses require individuals with relevant experience and diverse skill sets, and the market for these personnel is highly competitive. The failure to attract employees with the requisite skills and abilities to our Company, or the loss of key employees, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Irving Azoff, who not only has a leadership role for the Company as a whole but also is critical to the success of our artist services business, could adversely impact our ability to meet key objectives, such as the timely and effective development and delivery of products and services, and could otherwise have a significant impact on our operations. 23 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment—A significant portion of our goodwill recently became impaired and may suffer further impairment in the future. Any future impairment could negatively affect our financial results and financial condition. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. If the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a total non-cash charge of $1.1 billion related to the impairment of goodwill of our Ticketing reporting unit. As of December 31, 2008, after giving effect to the impairment charge, we had goodwill of approximately $455.8 million, which constituted approximately 27% of our total assets at that date. Due to the volatile stock market, the current economic uncertainty and other factors, the Company cannot assure investors that remaining goodwill will not be further impaired in future periods. Impairment may result from, among other things, a significant and sustained decline in our stock prices and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected cash flows, an adverse change in the business climate and slower growth rates in our industry. If we are required to record an impairment charge for our goodwill in the future, this would adversely impact our financial condition and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 