ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In analyzing our Company, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following subsection, as well as those discussed in "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of the following risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Company. General and Economic Risks Related to the Operations of the Company We are currently in default with respect to our outstanding indebtedness and our assets are subject to foreclosure by our lender without notice. As previously disclosed in a Current Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 9, 2011, we entered into the First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the Forbearance Agreement entered into by and among us, YA, and certain of our subsidiaries (the “Agreement”), pursuant to which YA agreed to extend the Forbearance Period (as defined in the Agreement) by amending the definition of “Termination Date” to September 14, 2011. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and the Amendment, the Forbearance Period ended on September 14, 2011. Consequently, as of September 15, 2011, we became subject to foreclosure by YA without notice. As of September 15, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness to YA in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $14,188,923 and, with accrued interest, approximately $18,363,780 (the “Debt”). YA may immediately commence enforcing its rights and remedies pursuant to the Agreement, the agreements relating to the Debt and under applicable law. However, YA has not notified the Company of its intention to foreclose on the assets of the Company, all of which are pledged as collateral for the Debt. Although the Company and YA are in discussions with respect to the extension of the Forbearance Period and/or renegotiation of revised terms to the agreements relating to the Debt, there is no guarantee that we will reach agreement or that an agreement will be reached on favorable terms. We will not be able to repay our outstanding indebtedness to YA, which is currently in default, unless and until we sell our Safety subsidiary. If we cannot sell our Safety subsidiary, we will not be able to continue operations as a going concern. We are currently in default on our indebtedness to YA, and the Forbearance Period, as defined above, has terminated, which means that YA may foreclose on our assets at any time without any notice to us. We do not generate sufficient cash flow through our current operations to be able to pay off all or a substantial portion of such indebtedness. Thus, the only way we will be able to pay off or at least pay down a substantial portion of our indebtedness to YA would be by selling our Safety subsidiary. Although we have signed a definitive document for the sale of Safety, there are no assurances that we will consummate such sale, or that we could enter into another definitive agreement if we do not consummate the one we have currently entered. In such a case, we would expect that YA would foreclose on our assets, unless it agrees to amend the terms of our repayment, and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, included an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of us being in default on our indebtedness to YA. Restrictive covenants in our outstanding indebtedness with YA may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies. Our outstanding indebtedness with YA restricts our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; • Make loans or advances; 15 Table of Contents • Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • Purchase or redeem our stock; • Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our credit agreement, except for our subsidiaries’ revolving credit agreement; • Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. These restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have historically had severe working capital shortages, even following significant financing transactions. Although we have raised capital totaling approximately $23,250,000 in gross proceeds since August 2005, we have had working capital shortages in the past. Our consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, indicate that we have a working capital deficit of $9,531,622. Based on the amount of capital we have remaining, we anticipate that we may have working capital shortages in the future unless we are able to substantially increase our revenue or reduce our expenses, thereby generating continuous positive cash flow from operations and (ultimately) operating income. We are unable to predict whether we will be successful in our efforts to generate continuous positive cash flow or maintain profitability. If we are not successful, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, included an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may need to raise additional capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. Based on our current level of operations, if obtain a forbearance of our existing outstanding debt with YA and we consummate the sale of Safety, we believe that our cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the industries in which we operate. Further, our acquisition strategy will likely require additional equity or debt financings. Such financings could also be required to support our recently acquired operating units. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financings to fuel our growth strategy and support our newly acquired businesses. We have raised capital and issued securities at the commencement of our operations, which has resulted result in dilution (and will result in future dilution upon future warrant exercises or stock conversions) to our existing stockholders. We will likely issue more securities to raise additional capital or to obtain other services or assets, which may result in further substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Since August 2005, we have raised gross proceeds in the amount of approximately $23,250,000 to finance our business operations and acquisitions. We have raised this capital by issuing convertible debentures, shares of common stock and convertible preferred stock and common stock warrants to investors, as compensation to investment bankers and upon exercise of previously issued common stock warrants and stock options. In many cases, these issuances were below the then-current market prices and can be considered dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Series F Preferred Stock (the “Series F Stock”), our Series H Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series H Stock”) and our Series I Preferred Stock (the “Series I Stock” and, collectively, with the Series F and H Stock, the “Preferred Stock”) have significant restrictions and penalties on our ability to raise any additional capital. If we raise additional working capital, we will have to issue additional shares of our common stock and common stock warrants at prices that will dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, unless the holders of such Preferred Stock agree to amend or waive such rights. 16 Table of Contents The conversion ratio of our Series H Stock has been automatically adjusted and if the majority holder does not agree to amend or waive the terms of such adjustment and converts its Series H Stock, our existing stockholders will be substantially diluted. Each share of Series H Stock is convertible into an initial ratio of 33,334 shares of common stock, subject to adjustments, including Safety achieving certain earnings milestones for the calendar years ending December 31, 2009 and 2008. Although Safety achieved the first milestone for the calendar year ending December 31, 2008, it did not satisfy the second financial milestone, which entitles the holders of the Series H Stock to an additional 56,300 shares of common stock for each share of Series H Stock, or approximately a potential additional 230,000,000 shares of our common stock in the aggregate. The Company is currently in discussions with the majority holder of the Series H Stock on the possibility of a waiver or amendment of the adjustment to the Series H Stock conversion ratio. However there can be no assurances that such holder will waive or amend the adjustment, if any, to the Series H Stock conversion ratio. YA has not exercised any of its conversion rights pertaining to the adjusted conversion ratio as of the date of this filing. Outstanding Preferred Stock, options and warrants may make it difficult for us to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms. As of June 30, 2011, we had Preferred Stock outstanding that is convertible into approximately a minimum of 449,973,266 shares of common stock and approximately a maximum of 677,313,700 shares of common stock, depending on certain negotiations currently underway concerning the Additional Shares. The holders’ rights to convert the Series F Stock, Series H Stock, including the Additional Shares and Series I Stock and related warrants are, however, subject to certain share issuance limitations. In addition, we have outstanding options and warrants for the purchase of up to 11,690,000 shares of common stock and 99,525,485 shares of common stock, respectively, at exercise prices of between $0.03 and $1.00 per share respectively. If all of the outstanding options, Preferred Stock, Additional Shares and common stock warrants were to be converted, they would represent approximately 95% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Future investors will likely recognize that the holders of the options and warrants will only exercise their rights to acquire our common stock when it is to their economic advantage to do so. Therefore, even with lower current market prices for our common stock, the market overhang of such a large number of warrants, options, and convertible preferred stock, including the Additional Shares may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional capital because any new investors will perceive that the securities offer a risk of substantial potential future dilution. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. In addition, our title insurance subsidiary, Timios, must comply with state laws which require it to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that it can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts that subsidiary can dividend to us. Our common stock is vulnerable to pricing and purchasing actions that are beyond our control and, therefore, persons acquiring or holding our shares may be unable to resell their shares at a profit as a result of this volatility. The trading price of our securities has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, our announcements of new contracts or products by us or our competitors, and other events and factors. The securities markets themselves have from time to time and recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Announcements of delays in our work schedules, new contracts or products by us or our competitors and developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights could have a significant and adverse impact on such market prices. Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries, public concern as to the safety of products containing radioactive compounds, and economic and other external factors all affect the market price of our securities. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to effect and maintain registration of the common stock issued or issuable pursuant to conversion of our Preferred Stock, the Additional Shares or certain of our outstanding common stock warrants, we may be obligated to pay the investors of those securities liquidated damages. We have an obligation to file upon request of holders of our preferred stock and obtain the effectiveness of a registration statement which would include certain outstanding common stock and common stock underlying outstanding Preferred Stock, the Additional Shares and warrants. Once effective, the prospectus contained within a registration statement can only be used for a period of time as specified by statute without there being a post-effective amendment filed that has become effective under the Securities Act of 1933. If we are unable to meet these filing obligations (or effectiveness obligations), we would be obligated to pay the holder of these securities liquidated damages for each 30 day period after the applicable date as the case may be. The liquidated damages may be paid in cash or shares of our common stock if registered, at the holder’s option. We cannot offer any assurances that we will be able to maintain the required current information contained in a prospectus or to obtain the effectiveness of any registration statement or post-effective amendments that we may file. We have a limited operating history, especially in the real estate services industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may cause our revenues to decline. The Company consolidated companies in the homeland security and now intends to consolidate companies in the real estate service industries. Until its acquisition of NTG (formerly known as Nexus) in 2006, its joint venture with Polimaster in 2006 and its acquisition of Safety in March 2008, the Company had not generated any revenues since 2002, other than interest income on its cash. In addition, the Company intends to exit the homeland security industry and, over the course of the last two quarters, has entered into the real estate services industry through its acquisition of Timios and Default. The Company’s ability to generate revenues and earnings (if any) will be directly dependent upon the operating results of such acquired businesses and any additional acquisitions, and the successful integration and consolidation of those businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in generating revenues and earnings based on our business model. Failure to achieve and maintain internal controls in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business. We reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K a material weakness for the year ended June 30, 2011 with respect to contract accounting for loss contracts. If we fail to maintain our internal controls or fail to implement required new or improved controls, as such control standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in the prevention of financial fraud. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon key personnel who would be difficult to replace and whose loss could impede our development. The Company believes that its success depends principally upon the experience of C. Thomas McMillen, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael T. Brigante, its Chief Financial Officer, as well as the senior management and directors of its operating subsidiaries. Although Messrs. McMillen and Brigante have substantial experience in acquiring and consolidating businesses, our acquired companies personnel do not have significant experience in managing companies formed for the specific purpose of consolidating one or more companies. Additionally, Messrs. McMillen and Brigante did not have experience in managing companies in the various sectors of the homeland security and real estate service industries. As a result, the Company likely will rely significantly on the senior management of the businesses it acquires. Such acquired senior management may not be suitable to the Company’s business model or combined operations. If the Company loses the services of one or more of its current executives, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company may not successfully recruit additional personnel and any additional personnel that are recruited may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary or desirable to enhance the incumbent management. Further, although we have employment agreements with Messrs. McMillen and Brigante, there can be no assurance that the entire term of their employment agreements will be served or that the employment agreements will be renewed upon expiration. 18 Table of Contents Because our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our stock price may be volatile. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results and volatility in our stock price: • expenses incurred in pursuing and closing acquisitions and in follow-up integration efforts; • changes in customers’ budgets and procurement policies and priorities, and funding delays, particularly with respect to government contracts; • new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and bid protest costs; • unanticipated delays or problems in releasing new products and services; and • the amount and timing of our investments in research and development activities and manufacturing improvements. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could also materially adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues, with such shortfalls resulting in fluctuations in our operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Penny stocks are stock: • with a price of less than $5.00 per share; • that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; • whose price is not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or • stock in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. 19 Table of Contents Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) “boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired degree. The Company’s management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although the Company does not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, including sales of shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options and warrants will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover through the exercise of an option or warrant, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. The current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic conditions remain difficult with the continuing uncertainty in the global credit markets, the financial services industry and the United States capital markets and with the United States economy as a whole experiencing a period of substantial turmoil and uncertainty characterized by unprecedented intervention by the United States federal government and the failure, bankruptcy, or sale of various financial and other institutions. We believe the current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations, business and prospects, as well as our ability to obtain funds. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. We do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock which may hinder our ability to attract additional capital. The Company has not paid any dividends on its common stock to date. The terms of our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends. Assuming we were permitted to pay dividends, the payment of any dividends is within the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors expects to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the Company’s business operations and, accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Appropriate acquisitions may not be available, which may adversely affect our growth. The results of the Company’s planned operations are dependent upon the Company’s ability to identify, attract and acquire additional desirable acquisition candidates, which may take considerable time. Our acquisition strategy is important to the success of our business because it supports our strategy of selling a broad platform of integrated offerings to customers who we believe prefer to buy multiple products and service offerings from fewer vendors. The Company may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring additional acquisition candidates, in integrating such candidates into the Company or in realizing profits from any of its acquired companies. Other companies also pursue acquisitions of companies in the real estate service marketplace and we expect competition for acquisition candidates in our industry to increase, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring target companies, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ product and service offerings with our existing offerings and sales channels, which would reduce the benefits to us of the acquisitions and limit the effectiveness of our strategy. The failure to complete additional acquisitions or to operate the acquired companies profitably would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If our consolidation strategy is not successful, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. One of the Company’s strategies is to increase its revenues, the range of products and services that it offers and the markets that it serves through the acquisition of additional real estate services businesses. Investors have no basis on which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any future acquisition candidates’ operations and prospects that management may identify. Although management of the Company will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition candidate, the Company may not properly ascertain all of such risks. Additionally, management of the Company has significant flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates. Management may not succeed in selecting acquisition candidates that will be profitable or that can be integrated successfully. Although the Company intends to scrutinize closely the management of a prospective acquisition candidate in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, the Company’s assessment of management may not prove to be correct. The Company may enlist the assistance of other persons to assess the management of acquisition candidates. Finally, the Company will seek to improve the profitability and increase the revenues of acquired businesses by various means, including combining administrative functions, eliminating redundant facilities, implementing system and technology improvements, purchasing products and services in large quantities and cross-selling products and services. The Company’s ability to increase revenues will be affected by various factors, including the Company’s ability to expand the products and services offered to the customers of acquired companies, develop national accounts and attract and retain a sufficient number of employees to perform the Company’s services. There can be no assurance that the Company’s internal growth strategies will be successful. Competition and industry consolidation may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. The Company expects to face significant competition to acquire businesses in the real estate services industry from larger companies that currently pursue, or are expected to pursue, acquisitions as part of their growth strategies and as the industry undergoes continuing consolidation. Such competition could lead to higher prices being paid for acquired companies. The Company believes that the real estate services industry will undergo considerable consolidation during the next several years. The Company expects that, in response to such consolidation and in light of the Company’s financial resources, it will consider from time to time additional strategies to enhance stockholder value. These include, among others, strategic alliances and joint ventures; purchase, sale and merger transactions with other large companies; and other similar transactions. In considering any of these strategies, the Company will evaluate the consequences of such strategies, including, among other things, the potential for leverage that would result from such a transaction, the tax effects of the transaction, and the accounting consequences of the transaction. In addition, such strategies could have various other significant consequences, including changes in management, control or operational or acquisition strategies of the Company. There can be no assurance that any one of these strategies will be undertaken, or that, if undertaken, any such strategy will be completed successfully. Failure to qualify for Investment Company Act exemptions could adversely affect our growth and financial condition. The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act also may apply to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities that bring it within the Investment Company Act’s definition of an investment company. The Company believes that its principal activities, which involve acquiring control of operating companies and providing managerial and consulting services, will not subject the Company to registration and regulation under the Investment Company Act. The Company intends to remain exempt from investment company regulation either by not engaging in investment company activities or by qualifying for the exemption from investment company regulation available to any company that has no more than 45% of its total assets invested in, and no more than 45% of its income derived from, investment securities, as defined in the Investment Company Act. 21 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid registration and regulation as an investment company. In the event the Company is unable to avail itself of an exemption or safe harbor from the Investment Company Act, the Company may become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company’s activities, as noted below, and contracts entered into by the Company at such time that it was an unregistered investment company may be unenforceable. The Investment Company Act imposes substantial requirements on registered investment companies including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on certain investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Potential tax consequences of our acquisitions may adversely affect our financial conditions. As a general rule, federal and state tax laws and regulations have a significant impact upon the structuring of business combinations. The Company will evaluate the possible tax consequences of any prospective business combination and will endeavor to structure the business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to the Company, the acquisition candidate and their respective stockholders. Nonetheless, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or appropriate state tax authorities may not ultimately agree with the Company’s tax treatment of a consummated business combination. To the extent that the IRS or state tax authorities ultimately prevail in re-characterizing the tax treatment of a business combination, there may be adverse tax consequences to the Company, the acquisition candidate and/or their respective stockholders. Our financial condition could be harmed if businesses we acquire failed to comply with applicable laws or have other undisclosed liabilities. Any business that we acquire may have been subject to many of the same laws and regulations to which our business is subject and possibly to others, including laws and regulations impacting companies that do business with federal, state and local governments. If any business that we acquire has not conducted its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be held accountable or otherwise suffer adverse consequences, such as significant fines or unexpected termination of contracts. Businesses we acquire may have other undisclosed liabilities we do not discover during the acquisition process that could result in liability to us or other unanticipated problems, such as product liability claims. Unexpected liabilities such as these could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Homeland Security Industry As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our government contracts are a significant part of our business. Allowable costs under U.S. government contracts are subject to audit by the U.S. government. Similarly, some U.K. contracts are subject to audit by U.K. regulatory authorities. These audits could result in the disallowance of certain fees and costs, if, the auditing agency asserts, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses were not warranted or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government contracts are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. For example, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Additionally, we may be subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual costs and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. If we fail to comply with any regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated or we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our government contracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. 22 Table of Contents Economic downturns or reductions or diversions in government funding could have a negative impact on our business. Demand for our services has been, and we expect that demand will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions. During economic downturns, the ability of private and government entities to make expenditures on radiological, security and environmental services may decline significantly. We cannot be certain that economic or political conditions will be generally favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting the homeland security industry as a whole. In addition, our operations in the homeland security industry depend, in part, upon government funding, and more recently funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, particularly within the funding levels of the environmental programs at the Department of Energy, or the DOE, and Department of Defense, or DOD. Significant changes in the level of government funding or specifically mandated levels for different programs that are important to our homeland security business could have an unfavorable impact on that segment of our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We and our customers in the homeland security industry operate in a regulated industry that requires us and them to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government licenses, permits and approvals. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Our projects are often required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government licenses, permits and approvals. Any of these may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of a license, permit or approval may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including: • failure to provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning or closure; • failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; • local community, political or other opposition; • executive action; and • legislative action. In addition, if new environmental or other legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we or our customers may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Changes in requirements imposed by our environmental or other permits may lead us to incur additional expenses by requiring us to change or improve our waste management technologies and services to achieve and maintain compliance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all potential regulatory changes. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment, and the public perception of radioactive materials can affect us and our customers. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment. The risks associated with radioactive materials and the public perception of those risks can affect our business. Public criticisms of our business resulting from political activism could harm our reputation. Opposition by third parties to particular projects can delay or prohibit the handling, transportation, and disposal of radioactive materials. Adverse public reaction to developments in the use of nuclear power or the disposal of radioactive materials, including any high profile incident involving the discharge of radioactive materials, could directly affect our customers and indirectly affect our homeland security business. Adverse public reaction also could lead to increased regulation or outright prohibition, limitations on the activities of our customers, more onerous operating requirements or other conditions that could have a material adverse impact on our customers’ and our business in the homeland security industry. 23 Table of Contents The elimination or any modification of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could have adverse consequents for our business. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or the AEA, comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials. Section 170 of the AEA, which is known as the Price-Anderson Act, supports the nuclear services industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and DOE contractors for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or the NRC, and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also companies like us that work under contract or subcontract at a DOE facility under a DOE prime contract or transporting radioactive material to or from a site. The indemnification authority of the NRC and DOE under the Price-Anderson Act was extended through 2025 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. We are subject to liability under environmental laws and regulation. When we perform our services through our Safety subsidiary, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties as a result of such exposure. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. Although to date we have been able to obtain liability insurance for the operation of our business, there can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate or that it will be able to be maintained or that all possible claims that may be asserted against us will be covered by insurance. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Construction sites and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal proceedings. Construction sites and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Construction and maintenance projects often require putting our employees in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly-regulated materials. On those projects where we are responsible for site safety, we are obligated to implement procedures to ensure that workers are not injured. In the event we either fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured, and we could incur significant financial losses. In addition, the Company could be found liable for failing to comply with government regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Regulations dealing with occupational health and safety are continually evolving. We maintain functional groups within the Company whose primary purpose is to ensure that effective health, safety, and environmental, or HSE, work procedures are implemented throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites. In spite of these efforts, the Company could suffer losses relating to safety issues at our construction and maintenance sites, or fail to comply with all HSE regulations applicable to our business. Our failure to maintain our safety record could have an adverse effect on our business. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. In addition, many of our government and commercial customers require that we maintain certain specified safety record guidelines to be eligible to bid for contracts with these customers. Furthermore, contract terms may provide for automatic termination in the event that our safety record does not comply with agreed standards during the performance of the contract. A failure to maintain our safety record could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 24 Table of Contents The homeland security industry is highly competitive and we must typically bid against other competitors to obtain major contracts. The homeland security industry is highly competitive, and most of our government contracts and some of our commercial contracts are awarded through competitive bidding processes. The extent of such competition varies according to the industries and markets in which our clients operate as well as the geographic areas in which we operate. The degree and type of competition we face is also often influenced by the type of projects for which we compete. Some of our competitors are larger and may possess greater resources than we do, which may give them an advantage when bidding for certain projects. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue for government environmental service contracts, challenging our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share and experience an overall reduction in our profits. Part of our business strategy includes bidding on government contracts as a lead prime contractor in a consortium. In the past, we have operated as a subcontractor or in a minority position on a prime contractor team. In pursuing a lead prime contractor role, we will be competing directly with a number of large national and regional services firms that may possess or develop technologies superior to our technologies and have greater financial, management and marketing resources than we do. Many of these companies also have long-established customer relationships and reputations. We must be successful in the competitive process with our government and commercial customers to replace revenues from projects that are nearing completion and to increase our revenues. Our business and operating results can be adversely affected by the size and timing of a single material contract. As a result of the acquisition of Timios, our business no longer qualifies as a small business and, as a result, we are unable to take advantage of opportunities available to small businesses. Having a small business status provides a company with certain competitive advantages, including allowing such companies to compete for certain government set asides for which larger businesses are ineligible. For instance, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Until such time as we again attain our small business status, we will have to compete with a larger pool of companies for government contracts, which may also have more resources at their disposal. Thus, the failure to qualify as a small business could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results from operations. If our teaming members or partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project or if we fail to coordinate effectively with our partners or subcontractors, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit on a project. We often work jointly with contractual partners or with subcontractors to perform certain projects. Success on these projects depends in part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners or subcontractors fails to perform their contractual obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to compensate for that partner’s failure. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our customer may exercise its right to terminate a joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit. Our collaborative arrangements also involve risks that participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies. These disagreements could result in delays, additional costs and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results: • the seasonality of the spending cycle of our government customers and the spending patterns of our commercial customers; • the number and significance of projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; • the timing of resolutions of change orders, requests for equitable adjustments and other contract adjustments; 25 Table of Contents • decisions by customers to terminate our contracts; • seasonal variations in shipments of radioactive materials; • weather conditions that delay work at project sites; • staff levels and utilization rates; • changes in the prices of services offered by our competitors; and • general economic or political conditions. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could materially adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins. Our backlog is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the amount of backlog in-hand at any one time will actually be realized as revenues. Gross margins (i.e., contract revenue less direct costs of contracts) can vary considerably between contracts. One aspect of our business that can have a significant effect on the gross margins we realize on our contracts and projects is the amount of pass-through costs incurred. Since pass-through costs typically do not bring significant margins with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding change in our gross margins. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and, hence, future profitability. In some of the homeland security markets we serve, there is an increasing trend towards cost—reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs; overall safety performance; overall client satisfaction; and/or other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee, resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. The loss of one or a few of Safety’s customers could have an adverse effect on us. One or a few government and commercial customers have in the past, and may in the future, account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Because customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose significant customers from year to year as their projects with us are completed. Our inability to replace such business with other projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts, if costs increase above our estimates. A percentage of our revenues are earned under contracts that are fixed-price in nature. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-reimbursable contracts. Under fixed price and guaranteed maximum-price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or if circumstances change, such as unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials or our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. Errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications can also lead to cost-overruns. 26 Table of Contents Our use of level of effort or percent complete performance accounting could result in reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the level of effort or percent complete performance method of accounting. Generally, the performance accounting practices we use result in recognizing contract revenues and earnings based on output measures, where estimable, or on other measures, such as the proportion of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. For some of our long-term contracts, completion is measured on estimated physical completion or units of production. The cumulative effect of revisions to contract revenues and estimated completion costs, including incentive awards, penalties, change orders, claims and anticipated losses, is recorded in the accounting period in which the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual completion costs may vary from estimates, and such variances could be material to our operating results. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. The nature of our business occasionally results in clients, subcontractors and vendors presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims and change orders to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible or for services provided that were either requested by the client or were otherwise required by the nature of the project. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns and experience reduced profits or, in some cases, suffer a loss for that project. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change-orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change-orders can be significant. In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. Litigation in which we could be involved in as a defendant includes, but is not limited to, workers’ compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. However, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits and retentions under our insurance programs, which may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Adequate bonding is necessary for us to win certain types of new work. We are often required to provide performance bonds or other financial assurances to customers under fixed-price contracts. These surety instruments indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that project. We currently have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately $10.9 million of bonds or surety contracts outstanding. We have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverage, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. The amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverage is generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. We face the risk of incurring liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. We also carry a broad range of insurance coverage that is customary for a company our size. We use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance 27 Table of Contents exposure associated with claims. To the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds; rely on insurance, including captive insurance, or fund trust and escrow accounts. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. We do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future. However, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. These types of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Armed hostilities could constrain our ability to conduct business internationally and could also disrupt our U.S. operations. The current world unrest, or the responses of the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to the economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could have an impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability, our insurance premiums or the ability to purchase insurance and our ability to deliver our products to our customers. The consequences of these risks are unpredictable, and their long-term effect upon us is uncertain. A substantial portion of our revenues depends on sales to the U.S. government and could be affected by changes in federal funding levels. Agencies and departments of the U.S. government account for a substantial portion of our revenues from product sales and substantially all of our revenues from research and development contracts. We and other U.S. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall U.S. defense spending in the last few years and are counting on significant revenues from U.S. government contracts for the foreseeable future. This trend continued with the former President’s budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflected the continued commitment to modernize the Armed Forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. However, U.S. government programs are limited by budgetary constraints and are subject to uncertain future funding levels that could result in the termination of programs. Future defense budgets and appropriations for our programs and contracts may be affected by differing priorities of the new Administration, including budgeting constraints stemming from the economic recovery and stimulus plans. A decline in security-related government spending, or a shift away from our offerings or programs that we address, could hurt our sales, put pressure on our prices and reduce our revenues and margins. We may not realize anticipated benefits from global stimulus packages. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. federal government, have enacted various stimulus packages that are intended to increase investment and business activity, and in particular to provide funding for life science research, equipment and facilities. Although we believe there is opportunity for the Company to benefit from these economic stimulus spending programs, including the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, there is no assurance that any of these programs will have a material positive impact on our revenues and profits. The magnitude and timing of any benefits that we might realize from stimulus funding initiatives are uncertain and are subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including government appropriations processes in various countries in which we and our customers do business, governmental determinations regarding the allocation of stimulus funds to the academic institutions, not-for-profit research organizations and businesses that may utilize our products and technologies, the success of our customers in obtaining stimulus grants, and our customers’ decisions to use any stimulus funds they receive to purchase products from us. It is not possible to predict whether or when we will realize benefits from stimulus packages enacted in the U.S. or elsewhere, or what impact, if any, stimulus packages will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. General worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a downturn due to the lack of available credit, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to slow spending on services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue at the level experienced in fiscal 2010, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We derive a majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2011, we generated a majority of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from contracts with federal, state and local government agencies. U.S. federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by numerous factors as noted below. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally driven by the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: • Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; • Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures related to the services we provide; • Re-competes of government contracts; • The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments, and the overall level of government expenditures; • Curtailment of the use of government contracting firms; • Delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts; • The increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; • Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; • The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; • Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; • A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and • General economic or political conditions. 29 Table of Contents These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. A delay in the completion of the budget process of the U.S. government could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenues. When the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before its fiscal year-end on September 30, government operations are typically funded by means of a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenues. Our failure to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely affect our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process that is affected by a number of factors. These factors include market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Restrictive covenants in our revolving credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies, and if we do not have access to this revolving credit facility, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our revolving credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; • Make loans or advances; • Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • Purchase or redeem our stock; • Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our credit agreement; • Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our revolving credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios each fiscal quarter, which we may not be able to achieve. If we do not have access to this revolving credit facility or a comparable credit facility, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Real Estates Services and Asset Management Industry If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, the revenues of our Default and Timios subsidiaries may decline. Title insurance and asset management revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity, which includes, among other things, sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. Both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have experienced declines in many parts of the country over the past four years, and these trends appear likely to continue. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak, including high unemployment levels. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance and asset management revenues. In 2010 and continuing into 2011, the continued mortgage delinquency and default rates caused negative operating results at a number of banks and financial institutions and, as a result, continued to suppress the level of lending activity. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. We hold customers’ assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of real estate transactions. These assets are maintained in segregated bank accounts. Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties. and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. If we experience changes in the rate or severity of title insurance or asset management claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility. By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title or asset management loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. From time to time, we experience large losses or an overall worsening of our loss payment experience in regard to the frequency or severity of claims that makes us record additional charges to our claims loss reserve. There are currently pending several large claims which we believe can be defended successfully without material loss payments. However, if unanticipated material payments are required to settle these claims, it could result in or contribute to additional charges to our claim loss reserves. These loss events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the actuary’s central estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary’s calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary’s central estimate, but not at the central estimate, 31 Table of Contents management assesses other factors in order to determine our best estimate. These factors, which are more qualitative than quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. Depending upon our assessment of these factors, we may or may not adjust the recorded reserve. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary’s central estimate, we would record a charge or credit and reassess the provision rate on a go forward basis. Our average provision for claim losses was 6.8% of title premiums in 2010. We will reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology and can make no assurance that we will not need to record additional charges in the future to increase reserves in respect of prior periods. Our asset management business was dependent on one contract, which contract just expired. If we are unable to renew this contract, or enter into other contracts with substantially similar terms, our asset management business will be materially and adversely harmed. Until September 30, 2011, we relied on one asset management contract for our asset management business which represented 100% of our total revenue from that subsidiary. We are continuing to manage approximately 273 properties that are in contract. If the sales of any of such properties do not close prior to November 30, 2011, then such properties would revert back to the bank. We are currently in discussions with the bank to (1) extend the term during which we may manage such properties; (2) renew the master contract we had with the bank; and (3) if renewed, add more properties to the scope of such renewed contract. If we are unable to negotiate a satisfactory result in any of these respects, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The financial projections of our asset management contracts could prove inaccurate. We generally decide to enter into an asset management contract on the basis of financial projections prepared by our management. These projected operating results will normally be based primarily on judgments of the management. In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed. General economic conditions, which are not predictable, along with other factors may cause actual performance to fall short of the financial projections that were used to establish a given projection of results. The inaccuracy of financial projections could thus cause our actual performance to fall short of our expectations. Because our Timios subsidiary is dependent upon California for a substantial portion of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2010, California-based premiums accounted for a substantial portion of the premiums earned by our Timios subsidiary. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The title insurance business is highly competitive. Competition in the title insurance industry is intense, particularly with respect to price, service and expertise. Business comes primarily by referral from real estate agents, lenders, developers and other settlement providers. The sources of business lead to a great deal of competition among title insurers and asset managers. For example, although the top four title insurance companies during 2010 accounted for about approximately 90% of industry-wide premium volume, there are numerous smaller companies representing the remainder at the regional and local levels. The smaller companies are an ever-present competitive risk in the regional and local markets where their business connections can give them a competitive edge. Although we are not aware of any current initiatives to reduce regulatory barriers to entering our industry, any such reduction could result in new competitors, including financial institutions, entering the title insurance business. From time to time, new entrants enter the marketplace with alternative products to traditional title insurance, although many of these alternative products have been disallowed by title insurance regulators. These alternative products, if permitted by regulators, could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Competition among the major title insurance and asset management companies and any new entrants could lower our premium and fee revenues. 32 Table of Contents The asset management business is intensely competitive. The asset management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our asset management business competes with a number of traditional asset managers including, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: • a number of our competitors in some of our businesses have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do; • some of our property portfolios may not perform as well as competitors’ property portfolios or other available asset management portfolios; • some of our competitors may be subject to less regulation and accordingly may have more flexibility to undertake and execute certain lines of business than we can and/or bear less compliance expense than we do; • some of our competitors may have more flexibility than us in the use of asset management software, giving them a technological advantage over us; • some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of property portfolio mixes and to bid more aggressively than us for these portfolios; • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our business is expected to continue to result in increased competition; • some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by potential customers as having better expertise in a specific asset class or geographic region than we do; and • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose opportunities in the future if we do not match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if we match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Moreover, if we are forced to compete with other alternative asset managers on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fees and profitability. We have historically competed primarily on the performance, and not on the level of our fees relative to those of our competitors. However, there is a risk that fees asset management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance. Fee income reductions on existing or future business, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Industry regulatory scrutiny and investigations could adversely affect our ability to compete for or retain business or increase our cost of doing business. The title insurance industry has recently been, and continues to be, under regulatory scrutiny in a number of states with respect to pricing practices, and alleged RESPA violations and unlawful rebating practices. The regulatory investigations could lead to industry-wide reductions in premium rates and escrow fees, the inability to get rate increases when necessary, as well as to changes that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete for or retain business or raise the costs of additional regulatory compliance. 33 Table of Contents We may pursue opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities. We may pursue unusually complex asset management opportunities. This can often take the form of substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other asset management companies. Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such contracts can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to execute; it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets managed in such contracts; and such contracts sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. Any of these risks could harm the results of our operations. Our business depends upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes, and our failure to do so could make us less competitive in our industry. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change and technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. Products using new technologies or emerging industry standards could make our products and services less attractive. Furthermore, our competitors have access to technology not available to us, which enable them to produce products of greater interest to consumers or at a more competitive cost. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments may result in serious harm to our business and operating results. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances available to our customers, evolving industry standards and changing preferences. Rapid technological changes in our industry require timely and cost-effective responses. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively use technology to increase productivity. Technological advances occur rapidly in the title insurance industry as industry standards evolve and title insurers introduce new products and services. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technological changes and to offer products and services that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. Successful implementation and customer acceptance of our technology-based services will be crucial to our future profitability. There is a risk that the introduction of new products and services, or advances in technology, could reduce the usefulness of our products and render them obsolete. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 