ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all of your investment. Risk Factors Affecting Our Company Because our business is highly dependent upon a single commodity, coffee, any decrease in demand for coffee could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business is centered on essentially one commodity: coffee. Our operations have primarily focused on the following areas of the coffee industry: ● the roasting, blending, packaging and distribution of private label coffee; ● the roasting, blending, packaging and distribution of proprietary branded coffee; and ● the sale of wholesale specialty green coffee. Demand for our products is affected by: ● consumer tastes and preferences; ● global economic conditions; ● demographic trends; and ● the type, number and location of competing products. Because we rely on a single commodity, any decrease in demand for coffee would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings and could materially adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If we are unable to geographically expand our branded and private label products, our growth will be impeded which could result in reduced sales and profitability. Our business strategy emphasizes, among other things, geographic expansion of our branded and private label products as opportunities arise. We may not be able to implement successfully this portion of our business strategy. Our ability to implement this portion of our business strategy is dependent on our ability to: ● market our products on a national scale; ● increase our brand recognition on a national scale; ● enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third party retailers; and ● manage growth in administrative overhead and distribution costs likely to result from the planned expansion of our distribution channels. Our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully expand the geographic distribution of our branded and private label products. In addition, our expenses could increase and our profits could decrease as we implement our growth strategy. If our hedging policy is not effective, we may not be able to control our coffee costs, we may be forced to pay greater than market value for green coffee and our profitability may be reduced. The supply and price of coffee beans are subject to volatility and are influenced by numerous factors which are beyond our control. Historically, we have used short-term coffee futures and options contracts for the purpose of hedging the effects of changing green coffee prices. In addition, during the latter half of fiscal year 2000, we began to acquire futures contracts with longer terms, generally three to four months, for the purpose of guaranteeing an adequate supply of green coffee. Realized and unrealized gains or losses on options and futures contracts are reflected in cost of sales. Gains on options and futures contracts reduce cost of sales and losses on options and futures contracts increase cost of sales. Although we had net gains on options and futures contracts, we have incurred losses on options and futures contracts during some past reporting periods. Such losses could materially increase our cost of sales and materially decrease our profitability and adversely affect our stock price. 11 Although the use of these derivative financial instruments has generally enabled us to mitigate the effect of changing prices, no strategy is 100% effective in eliminating pricing risks and we generally remain exposed to loss on futures contracts when prices decline significantly in a short period of time, and we would generally remain exposed to supply risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to any futures contracts. Although, historically, we generally have been able to pass green coffee price increases through to customers, thereby maintaining our gross profits, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers in the future. Our hedging strategy and the hedges that we enter into may not adequately offset the risks of coffee bean price volatility and our hedges may result in losses. Failure to properly design and implement an effective hedging strategy may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. In this case, our costs of sales may increase, resulting in a decrease in profitability. Our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected if our joint venture is not successful. In April 2006, we entered into a joint venture with Caruso’s Coffee, Inc. of Brecksville, Ohio and formed GCC, which engages in the roasting, packaging and sale of private label specialty coffee products. While we believe that the GCC joint venture will continue to be successful, losses in this joint venture would hurt our profitability. In addition, we generally will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding our joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of the required capital contributions. Joint venture partners may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests, strategies or goals and may be, in cases where we have a minority interest, in a position to take actions contrary to our policies, strategies or objectives. Any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and could prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort exclusively on our business strategies. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party joint venture partners. Any inability to successfully implement our strategy of growth through selective acquisitions, licensing arrangements and other strategic alliances could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Part of our growth strategy utilizes the selective acquisition of coffee companies, the selective acquisition or licensing of additional coffee brands and other strategic alliances presents risks that could result in increased expenditures and could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability, including: ● such acquisitions, licensing arrangements or other strategic alliances may divert our management’s attention from our existing operations; ● we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired coffee companies or new coffee brands into our existing business; ● we may not be able to manage the contingent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, any acquired coffee company; and ● we may not be able to control unanticipated costs associated with such acquisitions, licensing arrangements or strategic alliances. In addition, any such acquisitions, licensing arrangements or strategic alliances may result in: ● potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; and ● the incurrence of additional debt. As has been our practice in the past, we will continuously evaluate any such acquisitions, licensing opportunities or strategic alliances as they arise. However, we have not reached any new agreements or arrangements with respect to any such acquisition, licensing opportunity or strategic alliance (other than those described herein) at this time and we may not be able to consummate any acquisitions, licensing arrangements or strategic alliances on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to consummate any such acquisitions, licensing arrangements or strategic alliances may reduce our growth and expansion. The loss of any of our key customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. We are dependant upon sales of wholesale green coffee to one customer, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters (“GMCR”). Sales to GMCR accounted for approximately 47% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and 35% for the fiscal year ended 2009. 12 Although no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of our net sales during this period, other customers may account for more than 10% of our net sales in future periods. We generally do not have long-term contracts with these or any of our customers. Accordingly, our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty and are free to purchase products from our competitors. The loss of, or reduction in sales to, customers such as GMCR or any of our other customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers would negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. If we lose our key personnel, including Andrew Gordon and David Gordon, our revenues and profitability could suffer. Our success depends to a large degree upon the services of Andrew Gordon, our President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and David Gordon, our Executive Vice President – Operations and Secretary. We also depend to a large degree on the expertise of our coffee roasters. We do not have employment contracts with our coffee roasters. Our ability to source and purchase a sufficient supply of high quality coffee beans and to roast coffee beans consistent with our quality standards could suffer if we lose the services of any of these individuals. As a result, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We may not be successful in obtaining and retaining a replacement for either Andrew Gordon or David Gordon if they elect to stop working for us. In addition, we do not have key-person insurance on the lives of Andrew Gordon or David Gordon. If our planned increase in marketing expenditures fails to promote and enhance our brands, the value of our brands could decrease and our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We believe that promoting and enhancing our brands is critical to our success. We intend to increase our marketing expenditures to increase awareness of our brands, which we expect will create and maintain brand loyalty. If our brand-building strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, and we may be unable to increase awareness of our brands or protect the value of our brands. If we are unable to achieve these goals, our revenues and ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands will also depend on our ability to provide customers with high quality products and service. Although we take measures to ensure that we sell only fresh roasted coffee, we have no control over our roasted coffee products once they are purchased by our customers. Accordingly, wholesale customers may store our coffee for longer periods of time or resell our coffee without our consent, in each case, potentially affecting the quality of the coffee prepared from our products. Although we believe we are less susceptible to quality control problems than many of our competitors because a majority of our products are sold in cans or brick packs unlike whole bean coffees, if consumers do not perceive our products and service to be of high quality, then the value of our brands may be diminished and, consequently, our operating results and ability to implement our business strategy may be adversely affected. Our roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. If our competitive position is weakened, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our roasted coffee and, therefore, essential to our brands of coffee. Because we do not hold any patents for our roasting methods, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we may lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors may be able to develop roasting methods that are more advanced than our roasting methods, which may also harm our competitive position. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our results of operations difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These fluctuations could be caused by a number of factors including: 13 ● fluctuations in purchase prices and supply of green coffee; ● fluctuations in the selling prices of our products; ● the level of marketing and pricing competition from existing or new competitors in the coffee industry; ● the success of our hedging strategy; ● our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; and ● our ability to manage inventory and fulfillment operations and maintain gross margins. As a result of the foregoing, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and those comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Accordingly, our operating results in future quarters may be below market expectations. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. Since we rely heavily on common carriers to ship our coffee on a daily basis, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, which could result in reduced revenues, increased operating expenses, a loss of customers or reduced profitability. We rely on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee to our customers and to deliver coffee beans to us. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes and other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee in a timely manner, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. In addition, a delay in shipping could require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers and could cause orders to be cancelled or receipt of goods to be refused. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause our revenue and profits to suffer. If there was a significant interruption in the operation of our Colorado facility, we may not have the capacity to service all of our customers and we may not be able to service our customers in a timely manner, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. A significant interruption in the operation of our Colorado coffee roasting and distribution facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. As a result, our revenues and earnings would be materially adversely affected. A worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and performance depend on consumer confidence and spending, which have recently deteriorated due to current worldwide economic downturn. This economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely impact our revenues, ability to market our products or otherwise implement our business strategy. For example, we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee and a shift in consumer demand away from specialty coffee due to economic or other consumer preferences would harm our business. If the current economic situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted. 14 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COFFEE INDUSTRY Increases in the cost of high quality Arabica or Robusta coffee beans could reduce our gross margin and profit. Green coffee is our largest single cost of sales. Coffee is a traded commodity and, in general, its price can fluctuate depending on: ● weather patterns in coffee-producing countries; ● economic and political conditions affecting coffee-producing countries, including acts of terrorism in such countries; ● foreign currency fluctuations; and ● trade regulations and restrictions between coffee-producing countries and the United States. If the cost of wholesale green coffee increases due to any of these factors, our margins could decrease and our profitability could suffer accordingly. It is expected that coffee prices will remain volatile in the coming years. Although we have historically attempted to raise the selling prices of our products in response to increases in the price of wholesale green coffee, when wholesale green coffee prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we are not always able to pass the price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which adversely affects our operating margins and cash flow. We may not be able to recover any future increases in the cost of wholesale green coffee. Even if we are able to recover future increases, our operating margins and results of operations may still be materially and adversely affected by time delays in the implementation of price increases. Disruptions in the supply of green coffee could result in a deterioration of our relationship with our customers, decreased revenues or could impair our ability to grow our business. Green coffee is a commodity and its supply is subject to volatility beyond our control. Supply is affected by many factors in the coffee growing countries including weather, political and economic conditions, acts of terrorism, as well as efforts by coffee growers to expand or form cartels or associations. If we were unable to procure a sufficient supply of green coffee, our sales would suffer. Some of the Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase do not trade directly on the commodity markets. Rather, we purchase the high-end Arabica coffee beans that we use on a negotiated basis. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high quality Arabica coffee beans. If any of our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters or growers deteriorate, we may be unable to procure a sufficient quantity of high quality coffee beans at prices acceptable to us or at all. In such case, we may not be able to fulfill the demand of our existing customers, supply new retail stores or expand other channels of distribution. A raw material shortage could result in a deterioration of our relationship with our customers, decreased revenues or could impair our ability to expand our business. The coffee industry is highly competitive and if we cannot compete successfully, we may lose our customers or experience reduced sales and profitability. The coffee markets in which we do business are highly competitive and competition in these markets could become increasingly more intense due to the relatively low barriers of entry. The industry in which we compete is particularly sensitive to price pressure, as well as quality, reputation and viability for wholesale and brand loyalty for retail. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Our private label and branded coffee products compete with other manufacturers of private label coffee and branded coffees. These competitors, such as Kraft General Foods, Inc. (owner of the Maxwell House brand), Massimo Zanetti Beverage, and Smuckers (owner of the Folgers brand), have much greater financial, marketing, distribution, management and other resources than we do for marketing, promotions and geographic and market expansion. In addition, there are a growing number of specialty coffee companies who provide specialty green coffee and roasted coffee for retail sale. If we are unable to compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose our customers or experience reduced sales and profitability. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 