ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and may not be able to improve our performance to achieve profitability. We reported net losses of $21.1 million, $207.7 million, $71.5 million, and $160.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. There is no guarantee that our ongoing cost reduction efforts or attempts to increase our revenues will be successful. If we are not able to successfully reduce costs and/or increase revenues, we may not be able to operate profitability in the future or generate sufficient cash to fund our operations and pay our indebtedness. We believe that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to decline. Therefore, we must continue to diligently manage our costs and successfully grow other business lines in order to stabilize and increase our revenues and improve our profitability. As our clients improve their systems and processes, fewer transactional errors occur. In addition, many of our clients have internal staffs that audit the same transactions before we do. As the skills, experience and resources of our clients’ internal recovery audit staffs improve, they will identify more overpayments themselves and reduce our audit recovery opportunities. Based on these and other factors, we currently believe that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to experience revenue declines over the long-term. In order to stabilize and increase our revenues and return to profitability, we must continue our cost reduction efforts (which includes emphasizing larger accounts that provide a greater return on the resources required for the account) and grow our other lines of business, such as our Medicare audit work. These other lines of business are still in the early stages of development, and there can be no guarantee that they will ultimately succeed. We depend on our largest clients for significant revenues, so losing a major client could adversely affect our revenues. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, our two largest clients accounted for approximately 13.3%, 13.8% and 13.8% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively. If we lose any of our major clients, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of revenue unless we acquire new business to replace such clients. Client and vendor bankruptcies and financial difficulties could reduce our earnings. Our clients generally operate in intensely competitive environments and, accordingly, bankruptcy filings by our clients are not uncommon. Bankruptcy filings by our large clients or the significant vendors who supply them or unexpectedly large vendor claim chargebacks lodged against one or more of our larger clients, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, our inability to collect our accounts receivable due to the financial difficulties of one or more of our large clients could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a client files for bankruptcy, we could be subject to an action to recover certain payments received in the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing as “preference payments.” If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we would be required to make unbudgeted cash payments which could strain our financial liquidity and our earnings would be reduced. For example, on April 1, 2003, Fleming Companies, one of the Company’s larger U.S. Accounts Payable Services clients at the time filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. During the quarter ended March 31, 2003, the Company received approximately $5.6 million in payments on account from Fleming. On January 24, 2005, the Company received a demand from the Fleming Post Confirmation Trust (“PCT”), a trust which was created pursuant to Fleming’s Chapter 11 reorganization plan to represent the client, for preference payments received by the Company. The demand stated that the PCT’s calculation of the preferential payments was approximately $2.9 million. The Company disputed the claim. Later in 2005, the PCT filed suit against the Company seeking to recover approximately $5.6 million in payments that were made to the Company by Fleming during the 90 days preceding Fleming’s bankruptcy filing, and that are alleged to be avoidable either as preferences or fraudulent transfers under the Bankruptcy Code. The Company believes that it has valid defenses to certain of the PCT’s claims in the proceeding. In December 2005, the PCT offered to settle the case for $2 million. The Company 10 Table of Contents countered with an offer to waive its bankruptcy claim and to pay the PCT $250,000. The PCT rejected the Company’s settlement offer, and although the parties have agreed to settlement mediation, the litigation is ongoing. Our strategic business initiatives may not be successful. Our objective is to build on our position as the leading worldwide provider of recovery audit services. Our strategic plan to achieve these objectives focuses on a series of initiatives designed to maintain our dedicated focus on clients and rekindle our growth. Recently, we have implemented a number of strategic business initiatives that are designed to reduce costs and stabilize revenues. These initiatives are ongoing and the results of the strategy and implementation will not be known until some time in the future. Each of the initiatives requires sustained management focus, organization and coordination over time, as well as success in building relationships with third parties. If we are unable to implement the strategy successfully, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, successful implementation of the strategy may require material increases in costs and expenses. We have incurred significant costs in establishing the necessary resources to provide services for Medicare audit recovery work, and to date, have not generated material revenues from this business. As part of a pilot program to use recovery auditing to recover overpayments on behalf of taxpayers, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare program, awarded us a three-year contract, effective March 28, 2005, to provide recovery audit services in connection with the State of California’s Medicare spending. We have expended substantial resources in connection with preparing for and performing the CMS audit services. While we believe this contract is a significant opportunity for us, to date the work has not generated material revenues and there is no guarantee that actual revenues will justify the required expenditures. In addition, as a result of the complex regulations governing Medicare payments, and the complexity of Medicare data, systems and processes, generally, it may be more difficult and may take longer to achieve recoveries than in other areas of our business. We may be unable to protect and maintain the competitive advantage of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to protect our proprietary software, audit techniques and methodologies, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Although we presently hold U.S. and foreign registered trademarks and U.S. registered copyrights on certain of our proprietary technology, we may be unable to obtain similar protection on our other intellectual property. In addition, our foreign registered trademarks may not receive the same enforcement protection as our U.S. registered trademarks. Additionally, we generally enter into nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients. We also limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation or unauthorized dissemination of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Even though we take care to protect our own intellectual property, there is no guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Moreover, although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we are also subject to the risk that someone else will assert a claim against us in the future for violating their intellectual property rights. Our failure to retain the services of key members of management and highly skilled personnel could adversely impact our continued success. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our executive officers and key employees. As such, we have entered into employment agreements with key members of management. While these employment agreements limit the ability of key employees to directly compete with us in the future, nothing prevents them from leaving our company. In addition, our current financial and operational condition, including, but not limited to our liquidity 11 Table of Contents concerns, makes it especially challenging to attract and retain highly qualified skilled auditors in an industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense. Accordingly, our future performance also depends, in part, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, manage our workforce, and retain highly qualified personnel. We rely on international operations for a significant portion of our revenues. Approximately 47.2% of our revenues from continuing operations were generated from international operations in 2006. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • political and economic instability in the international markets we serve; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly weaknesses in the British pound, the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, and the Brazilian real and other currencies of countries in which we transact business, which could result in currency translations that materially reduce our revenues and earnings; • costs associated with adapting our services to our foreign clients’ needs; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • expenses and legal restrictions associated with transferring earnings from our foreign subsidiaries to us; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; • business interruptions due to widespread disease, potential terrorist activities, or other catastrophes; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property rights; and • longer accounts receivable cycles. Because we expect a significant portion of our revenues to continue to come from international operations, the occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for providing disbursement audit services to commercial clients in the U.S. is rapidly declining. We currently serve the substantial majority of our U.S. commercial accounts payable services clients using a disbursement audit service model that typically entails acquisition from the client of limited purchase data and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. We believe that the market for providing disbursement audit services to commercial entities in the United States is rapidly declining. Similar to the decline in our core accounts payable recovery audit business, we will need to continue to successfully implement our cost savings efforts and grow our other lines of business in order to stabilize and increase our revenues to replace declining revenues from this business. Our U.S. commercial accounts payable services business is subject to price pressure. The substantial majority of our domestic commercial accounts payable services clients are currently served using a disbursement audit service model which typically entails obtaining limited purchase data from the client and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. The disbursement audit business is highly competitive and barriers to entry are relatively low. We believe that the low barriers to entry result from limited technology infrastructure requirements, the minimal need for audit data that is difficult to extract from the client’s systems, and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. As a result of the low barriers to entry, our domestic commercial accounts payable services business is subject to intense price pressure from our competition. Such price pressure could cause our profit margins to decline and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Generally our client contracts contain provisions under which the client may terminate the agreement prior to the completion of the agreement. Many of our client contracts contain provisions that would permit the client to terminate the contract without cause prior to the completion of the term of the agreement by providing us with relatively short prior written notice of the termination. As a result, the existence of contractual relationships with our clients is not an assurance that we will continue to provide services for our clients through the entire terms of their respective agreements. If 12 Table of Contents clients representing a significant portion of our revenues terminated their agreements unexpectedly, we may not, in the short-term, be able to replace the revenues and earnings from such contracts which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, client contract terminations could also harm our reputation within the industry which could negatively impact our ability to obtain new clients. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental privacy laws and regulations could substantially impact our business, operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations. Changes in privacy laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations could have a substantial effect on our operating methods and costs. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in the termination or loss of contracts, the imposition of contractual damages, civil sanctions, or in certain circumstances, criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Determining compliance with such regulations is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. There can be no assurance that we are or have been in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with new laws or regulations. Proposed legislation by the European Union, if enacted as currently drafted, will have a materially adverse impact on Meridian’s operations. The European Union has currently proposed legislation that would remove the need for suppliers to charge value-added taxes on the supply of services to clients within the European Union. It is difficult to estimate whether and/or when the proposed legislation would be enacted and implemented. Management believes that the proposed legislation, if enacted as currently drafted, when implemented would have a materially adverse impact on the results of operations of our Meridian segment and would also negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. Meridian may be required to repay grants received from the Industrial Development Authority. During the period of May 1993 through September 1999, Meridian received grants from the Industrial Development Authority of Ireland, IDA, in the sum of 1.4 million Euro ($1.8 million at December 31, 2006 exchange rates). The grants were paid primarily to stimulate the creation of 145 permanent jobs in Ireland. As a condition of the grants, if the number of permanently employed Meridian staff in Ireland falls below 145, then the grants are repayable in full. This contingency expires on September 23, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, Meridian employed 213 permanent employees in Dublin, Ireland. As discussed above, proposed EU legislation could eventually have a materially adverse impact on Meridian’s results of operations. If Meridian’s results of operations were to decline as a result of the enactment of that legislation, it is possible that the number of permanent employees that Meridian employs in Ireland could fall below 145 prior to September 2007. Should such an event occur, Meridian will have to repay the full amount of the grants it previously received from IDA. Because of the lengthy approval process required for the legislative proposal to become law and the requirements for numerous systems changes before implementation, management currently estimates that any impact on employment levels related to a possible change in the EU legislation will not be realized until after September 2007. As any potential liability related to these grants is not currently determinable, we have not included any expenses related to this matter in our financial statements. Management is monitoring this situation and if it appears probable that Meridian’s permanent staff in Ireland will fall below 145 and that grants will need to be repaid to IDA, Meridian will be required to recognize an expense at that time. Such expense could be material to Meridian’s results of operations. Our revenues from certain clients and VAT authorities may change markedly from year to year. We examine merchandise procurements and other payments made by business entities such as manufacturers, distributors and service firms. To date, services to these types of clients have tended to be either periodic (typically, every two or three years) or rotational in nature with different divisions of a given client often audited in pre-arranged annual sequences. Accordingly, revenues derived from a given client may change markedly from year to year depending on factors such as the size and nature of the client division under audit. 13 Table of Contents Meridian’s revenue recognition policy causes its revenues to vary markedly from period to period as well. Meridian defers recognition of revenues to the accounting period in which cash is both received from the foreign governmental agencies reimbursing VAT claims and transferred to Meridian’s clients. The timing of reimbursement of VAT claims by the various European tax authorities with which Meridian files claims can differ significantly by country. The ownership change that occurred as a result of the exchange offer limits our ability to use our net operating losses. We have substantial tax loss and credit carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On March 17, 2006, as a result of its financial restructuring, the Company experienced an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). This ownership change resulted in an annual IRC Section 382 limitation that mathematically limits the use of certain tax attribute carryforwards. Of the $34.1 million of U.S. federal net loss carryforwards available to the Company, $27.1 million of the loss carryforwards are subject to an annual usage limitation of $1.4 million. The ownership change resulted in the write-off of approximately $72.6 million in previously incurred and unexpired federal net operating loss carryforward amounts and the write-off of approximately $7.4 million in future tax deductions related to certain built-in losses associated with intangible and fixed assets. In addition, the following write-offs also took place in 2006 as a result of the ownership change: $34.1 million in unexpired capital loss carryforwards, $14.3 million in unexpired foreign tax credit carryforwards, and $0.2 million in unexpired R&D credit carryforward amounts. Approximately $191.9 million of previously incurred and unexpired state net operating losses were also written off as a result of this ownership change. We believe such limitations and loss of these carryforwards will significantly increase our projected future tax liability. We may not be allowed to deduct interest with respect to our senior convertible notes issued in the exchange offer. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, no deduction is allowed for interest paid or accrued with respect to convertible debt if it is substantially certain that the holders will voluntarily convert the debt into equity. The proper application of this provision in the case of our senior convertible notes is subject to varying interpretations, depending in part on facts and circumstances existing on the exchange date. We currently intend to take the position that we are entitled to interest deductions in respect of our senior convertible notes. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, IRS, would not take a contrary position, or that any change in facts and circumstances would not result in us changing our position. In addition, even if not disallowed, any interest deductions with the respect to our senior convertible notes would cease upon an actual conversion of our senior convertible notes into stock. Future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets would reduce our future earnings. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $166.0 million and an impairment charge of $4.4 million relating to our intangible trade name value. Adverse future changes in the business environment or in our ability to perform audits successfully and compete effectively in our market could result in additional impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets, which could materially adversely impact future earnings. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $27.7 million. We must perform annual assessments to determine whether some portion, or all, of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-term assets are impaired. Annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 142 could result in a determination that our goodwill or other intangible assets have been further impaired, and annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 144 could result in a determination that our other long-lived assets have been impaired. Any future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets would reduce future earnings. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with other businesses offering recovery audit services, including client internal recovery audit departments. The recovery audit industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors for accounts payable recovery audit services include numerous smaller firms. Because these firms tend to be privately owned, we do not have 14 Table of Contents access to their financial statements, so we cannot be certain as to whether we can continue to compete successfully with our competitors. In recent years, revenues from our core accounts payable recovery audit business have declined, and are expected to continue to decline, due in part to our clients’ continuing development of their own internal recovery audit capabilities. In addition, the trend toward more effective internal recovery audit departments diminishes claims available for us to identify in our recovery audits and is likely to continue to negatively impact our future revenues. We have previously reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and any unidentified material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our SEC and other reporting requirements. In connection with an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2005, management determined that material weaknesses existed with respect to our internal controls over revenue recognition and company level controls, including the expertise of the accounting and finance staff. Management believes that during 2006 significant progress was made in remediating these material weaknesses. However, we can provide no assurances that these material weaknesses have been fully corrected or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. If we fail to remediate any such material weaknesses, our operating results or client relationships could be adversely affected or we may fail to meet our SEC reporting requirements or our financial statements may contain a material misstatement. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives or of preventing fraud due to its inherent limitations, regardless of how well designed or implemented. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Because of these limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements or instances of fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal control over financial reporting. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change of control that shareholders may favor. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive attractive offers for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified Board of Directors; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and • the ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community, in making decisions. Our articles of incorporation also permit the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a “poison pill” shareholders’ rights plan that could trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage bids for our shares of common stock at a premium and have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The terms of our senior credit facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and reduce our flexibility. Our current senior credit facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants, which limit our ability to take certain actions and require us to comply with specified financial ratios and other performance covenants. No assurance can be provided that we will not violate the covenants of our senior credit facility in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants in the future, our lenders could pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring the immediate repayment in full of all 15 Table of Contents amounts outstanding, if any. Additionally, we cannot be certain that, if the lenders demanded immediate repayment of any amounts outstanding, we would be able to secure adequate or timely replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, if the lenders accelerated repayment demand is subsequently made and we are unable to honor it, cross-default language contained in the indentures underlying our separately-outstanding senior notes and senior convertible notes due March 2011, could also be triggered, potentially accelerating the required repayment of those notes as well. In such an instance, there can likewise be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing that would be required to make such a rapid repayment. Our substantial leverage could materially adversely impact our financial health. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2006, our total outstanding debt and redeemable preferred stock was approximately $151 million and we reported a shareholders’ deficit of approximately $104 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had a maximum of $17 million of additional available borrowings under our senior credit facility. The instruments governing the notes and preferred stock issued in our recent financial restructuring and our senior credit facility also allow the issuance of additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates, particularly with respect to any of our borrowings at variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry. We will have significant interest, dividend, principal and redemption payments under the notes and preferred stock issued in the exchange offer coming due in the next four years. Our ability to make payments due on the notes and preferred stock and on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Some or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations and we could be required to file for bankruptcy. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our credit agreements and indentures may limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Market System. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • issuance of additional common stock on exercise of conversion rights of our senior convertible notes or our convertible preferred stock; • future announcements concerning us, key clients or competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results and liquidity; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • developments with respect to technology or litigation; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to our company; • acquisitions and financings; and • sales and purchases of blocks of stock by insiders. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. General stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our preferred stock and senior convertible notes and pursuant to our new management incentive plan will dilute our common stock. Our convertible notes and preferred stock, upon full conversion, would represent in excess of a majority of our outstanding common stock, based on the current number of shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, in order to retain key executive employees, in 2006, we adopted a new management incentive plan, pursuant to which certain senior management employees have received phantom shares of stock that are partially payable in common stock. We have reserved 10% of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis, as measured on the dates of distribution, to settle phantom shares under the management incentive plan. In addition, we may need to issue additional equity securities in the future in order to execute our business plan or for other reasons, which could lead to further dilution to holders of our common stock. This dilution of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 