ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors described below represent the Corporation’s principal risks. Except as otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and the Corporation is not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that the Corporation does not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available or that the Corporation is not currently able to anticipate. Volatility in purchased feedstock and energy costs impact UCC’s operating costs and add variability to earnings. During 2007, purchased feedstock and energy costs continued to rise. Purchased feedstock and energy costs have not lessened in early 2008, and these costs are expected to remain volatile throughout the year. When these costs increase, the Corporation is not always able to immediately raise prices and, ultimately, its ability to pass on underlying cost increases is greatly dependent on market conditions. As a result, increases in these costs could negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. The Corporation is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation had accrued obligations of $75 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $23 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Corporation has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to twice that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Corporation’s operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. The Corporation is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal proceedings and claims with both private and governmental parties. These cover a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to: product liability; trade regulation; governmental regulatory proceedings; health, safety and environmental matters; employment; patents; contracts; taxes; and commercial disputes. With the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability described below, it is the opinion of the Corporation’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. The Corporation is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. The asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and the Corporation’s receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $467 million at December 31, 2007. In addition, the Corporation had receivables for insurance recoveries of $271 million at December 31, 2007 for defense and resolution costs. Management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of the Corporation’s asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Corporation. Local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal business operations. Weather-related matters could impact the Corporation’s results of operations. In 2005, two major hurricanes caused significant disruption in UCC’s operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region and in the supply of certain raw materials which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of UCC’s products. If similar weather-related matters occur in the future, it could negatively affect UCC’s results of operations, due to the Corporation’s substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 5 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 