ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In four of the five annual periods ended December 31, 2005, we have incurred significant losses and we have not generated enough cash from operations to finance our business. We have not been profitable in four of the five years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2005, and we have not generated enough cash from operations to finance our business. There is no guarantee that our cost reduction plan or attempts to increase our revenues will be successful. If we are not able to successfully reduce costs and/or increase revenues, we may not be able to operate profitability in the future or generate sufficient cash to fund our operations and pay our indebtedness. Our current projections reflect that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to decline. Therefore, we must successfully implement our cost reduction plan and grow our other business lines in order to stabilize and increase our revenues and improve our profitability. As our clients improve their systems and processes, fewer transactional errors occur. In addition, many of our clients have internal staffs that audit the same transactions before we do. As the skills, experience and resources of our clients’ internal recovery audit staffs improve, they will identify more overpayments themselves and reduce our audit recovery opportunities. Based on these and other factors, we currently believe that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to experience revenue declines over the long-term. In order to stabilize and increase our revenues and improve our profitability, we must successfully implement our cost reduction plan, and grow our other lines of business such as our Medicare audit work, pharmacy payment service and motor carrier freight bill audits. These other lines of business are still in the early stages of development, and there can be no guarantee that they will ultimately succeed. We depend on our largest clients for significant revenues, so losing a major client could adversely affect our revenues. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, our two largest clients accounted for approximately 13.8%, 13.8% and 12.7% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively. If we lose any of our major clients, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of revenue unless we acquire new business to replace such clients. Client and vendor bankruptcies and financial difficulties could reduce our earnings. Our clients generally operate in intensely competitive environments and, accordingly, bankruptcy filings by our clients are not uncommon. Bankruptcy filings by our large clients or the significant vendors who supply them, or unexpectedly large vendor claim chargebacks lodged against one or more of our larger clients, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, our inability to collect our accounts receivable due to the financial difficulties of one or more of our large clients could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a client files for bankruptcy, we could be subject to an action to recover certain payments received in the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing as “preference payments.” If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we would be required to make unbudgeted cash payments which could strain our financial liquidity and our earnings would be reduced. For example, on March 30, 2005, the Fleming Post-Confirmation Trust, PCT, sued us in the bankruptcy proceeding of the Fleming Companies, a former client, in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware to recover approximately $5.5 million of alleged preferential payments. PCT subsequently amended its claims to add a claim for alleged fraudulent transfers representing approximately $2.0 million in commissions paid to us with respect to claims deducted from vendors that the client subsequently re-credited to the vendors. In early December 2005, the PCT offered to settle the case for $2 million. We countered with an offer to waive our bankruptcy claim and pay the PCT $250,000. The PCT rejected our counteroffer and the litigation is ongoing. 10 Table of Contents Our strategic business initiatives may not be successful. Our objective is to build on our position as the leading worldwide provider of recovery audit services. Our strategic plan to achieve these objectives focuses on a series of initiatives designed to maintain our dedicated focus on clients and rekindle our growth. Recently, we have implemented a number of strategic business initiatives that are designed to reduce costs and stabilize revenues. Although we have begun to implement these initiatives, we are still in the early stages of the process. Each of the initiatives requires sustained management focus, organization and coordination over time, as well as success in building relationships with third parties. The results of the strategy and implementation will not be known until some time in the future. If we are unable to implement the strategy successfully, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Successful implementation of the strategy may require material increases in costs and expenses. As part of a pilot program to use recovery auditing to recover overpayments on behalf of taxpayers, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare program, awarded us a three-year contract, effective March 28, 2005, to provide recovery audit services in connection with the State of California’s Medicare spending. We believe this contract is a significant opportunity for us, but we will have to expend substantial resources to prepare for and perform the CMS audit services and there is no guarantee that actual revenues will justify the required expenditures. Moreover, until the CMS pilot program is well underway, there will be no way to accurately predict the level of recoveries that will be achieved, and there is no guarantee that the level of recoveries will be significant. Even if CMS deems the pilot program sufficiently successful to justify further ventures, there is no guarantee that it, or any other medical claims client, will award future contracts to us. We may be unable to protect and maintain the competitive advantage of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to protect our proprietary software, audit techniques and methodologies, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Although we presently hold U.S. and foreign registered trademarks and U.S. registered copyrights on certain of our proprietary technology, we may be unable to obtain similar protection on our other intellectual property. In addition, our foreign registered trademarks may not receive the same enforcement protection as our U.S. registered trademarks. Additionally, we generally enter into nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients. We also limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation or unauthorized dissemination of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Even though we take care to protect our own intellectual property, there is no guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Moreover, although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we are also subject to the risk that someone else will assert a claim against us in the future for violating their intellectual property rights. Our failure to retain the services of key members of management and highly skilled personnel could adversely impact our continued success. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our executive officers and key employees. As such, we have entered into employment agreements with key members of management. While these employment agreements limit the ability of key employees to directly compete with us in the future, nothing prevents them from leaving our company. In addition, our current financial and operational condition, including, but not limited to our liquidity concerns, makes it especially challenging to attract and retain highly qualified skilled auditors in an industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense. Accordingly, our future performance also depends, in part, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, manage our workforce, and retain highly qualified personnel. 11 Table of Contents We rely on international operations for significant revenues. Approximately 47.2% of our revenues from continuing operations were generated from international operations in 2005. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • political and economic instability in the international markets we serve, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in collecting accounts receivable, • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly weaknesses in the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, and the Brazilian real and other currencies of countries in which we transact business, which could result in currency translations that materially reduce our revenues and earnings, • costs associated with adapting our services to our foreign clients’ needs, • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws, • expenses and legal restrictions associated with transferring earnings from our foreign subsidiaries to us, • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices, • business interruptions due to widespread disease, potential terrorist activities, or other catastrophes, • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and • longer accounts receivable cycles. Because we expect a significant proportion of our revenues to continue to come from international operations, the occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for providing disbursement audit services to commercial clients in the U.S. is rapidly declining. We currently serve the substantial majority of our U.S. commercial accounts payable services clients using a disbursement audit service model that typically entails acquisition from the client of limited purchase data and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. We believe that the market for providing disbursement audit services to commercial entities in the United States is rapidly declining. Our U.S. commercial accounts payable services business is subject to price pressure. The substantial majority of our domestic commercial accounts payable services clients are currently served using a disbursement audit service model which typically entails obtaining limited purchase data from the client and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. The disbursement audit business is highly competitive and barriers to entry are relatively low. We believe that the low barriers to entry result from limited technology infrastructure requirements, the minimal need for audit data that is difficult to extract from the client’s systems, and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. As a result of the low barriers to entry, our domestic commercial accounts payable services business is subject to intense price pressure from our competition. Such price pressure could cause our profit margins to decline and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Proposed legislation by the European Union, if enacted as currently drafted, will have a materially adverse impact on Meridian’s operations. The European Union has currently proposed legislation that would remove the need for suppliers to charge value-added taxes on the supply of services to clients within the European Union. It is difficult to estimate whether and/or when the proposed legislation would be enacted and implemented. Management believes that the proposed legislation, if enacted as currently drafted, when implemented would have a materially adverse impact on the results of operations of our Meridian segment and would also negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Meridian may be required to repay grants received from the Industrial Development Authority. During the period of May 1993 through September 1999, Meridian received grants from the Industrial Development Authority of Ireland, IDA, in the sum of 1.4 million Euro ($1.7 million at December 31, 2005 exchange rates). The grants were paid primarily to stimulate the creation of 145 permanent jobs in Ireland. As a condition of the grants, if the number of permanently employed Meridian staff in Ireland falls below 145, then the grants are repayable in full. This contingency expires on September 23, 2007. As of February 28, 2006, Meridian employed 204 permanent employees in Dublin, Ireland. As discussed above, proposed EU legislation could eventually have a materially adverse impact on Meridian’s results of operations. If Meridian’s results of operations were to decline as a result of the enactment of that legislation, it is possible that the number of permanent employees that Meridian employs in Ireland could fall below 145 prior to September 2007. Should such an event occur, Meridian will have to repay the full amount of the grants it previously received from IDA. Because of the lengthy approval process required for the legislative proposal to become law and the requirements for numerous systems changes before implementation, management currently estimates that any impact on employment levels related to a possible change in the EU legislation will not be realized until after September 2007, if ever. As any potential liability related to these grants is not currently determinable, we have not included any expenses related to this matter in our financial statements. Management is monitoring this situation and if it appears probable that Meridian’s permanent staff in Ireland will fall below 145 and that grants will need to be repaid to IDA, Meridian will recognize an expense at that time. Such expense could be material to Meridian’s results of operations. Our revenues from certain clients and VAT authorities may change markedly from year to year. We examine merchandise procurements and other payments made by business entities such as manufacturers, distributors and service firms. To date, services to these types of clients have tended to be either periodic (typically, every two or three years) or rotational in nature with different divisions of a given client often audited in pre-arranged annual sequences. Accordingly, revenues derived from a given client may change markedly from year to year depending on factors such as the size and nature of the client division under audit. Meridian’s revenue recognition policy causes its revenues to vary markedly from period to period as well. Meridian defers recognition of revenues to the accounting period in which cash is both received from the foreign governmental agencies reimbursing VAT claims and transferred to Meridian’s clients. The timing of reimbursement of VAT claims by the various European tax authorities with which Meridian files claims can differ significantly by country. Changes in the composition of our shareholder population, including those resulting from the issuance of new preferred stock in the exchange offer, are likely to limit our ability to use our net operating losses. We have substantial tax loss and credit carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of the implementation of the exchange offer or certain changes in the composition of our shareholder population (including purchases or sales of stock by certain 5% shareholders in sufficient amounts), it is likely that our ability to use such carryforwards (and certain other tax benefits) to offset future income or tax liability will be severely limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Under such section, our ability to use our existing tax loss and credit carryforwards (and certain other tax benefits) following an “ownership change” would be limited to an annual amount generally equal to the product of the fair market value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain reductions) and the “long-term tax-exempt rate” in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. For example, if (as is probable) an ownership change were to occur as a result of the conversion of new securities issued in the exchange, our ability to utilize our pre-change carryforwards and possibly certain future deductions to offset future income would be limited to roughly $1.5 million per year, based on a trading price of our common stock of $0.55 per share. Based on our current projections, such a limitation would significantly increase our projected future tax liability if combined with the elimination of interest deductions with respect to the new senior convertible notes issued in the exchange (whether due to the conversion of such notes into stock or, as discussed below, in the event of a determination that such interest was not deductible). 13 Table of Contents Recognition of cancellation of debt income as a result of the exchange offer may increase our income tax liability and adversely impact our financial position. We expect to recognize cancellation of debt income for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent the outstanding balance (principal plus accrued but unpaid interest) of the Company’s notes due November 2006 exceeded the fair market value of the new securities delivered in the exchange offer. We believe that we will have sufficient consolidated tax loss carryforwards to offset all of the anticipated income for U.S. federal income tax purposes (although there may be some liability for federal alternative minimum tax and state income tax). However, if it were determined that the available tax loss carryforwards were significantly less than the amount estimated or were otherwise limited (such as by reason of an annual limitation under section 382, as discussed above), we could have a significantly greater income tax liability. We may not be allowed to deduct interest with respect to the new senior convertible notes issued in the exchange offer. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, no deduction is allowed for interest paid or accrued with respect to convertible debt if it is substantially certain that the holders will voluntarily convert the debt into equity. The proper application of this provision in the case of the new senior convertible notes is subject to varying interpretations, depending in part on facts and circumstances existing on the exchange date. We currently intend to take the position that we are entitled to interest deductions in respect of the new senior convertible notes. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, IRS, would not take a contrary position, or that any change in facts and circumstances would not result in us changing our position. In addition, even if not disallowed, any interest deductions with the respect to the new senior convertible notes would cease upon an actual conversion of the new senior convertible notes into stock. Future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets would reduce our future earnings. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $166.0 million and an impairment charge of $4.4 million relating to our intangible trade name value. Adverse future changes in the business environment or in our ability to perform audits successfully and compete effectively in our market could result in additional impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets, which could materially adversely impact future earnings. We must perform annual assessments to determine whether some portion, or all, of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-term assets are impaired. Annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 142 could result in a determination that our goodwill or other intangible assets have been further impaired, and annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 144 could result in a determination that our other long-lived assets have been impaired. Any future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets would reduce future earnings. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with other businesses offering recovery audit services, including client internal recovery audit departments. The recovery audit industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors for accounts payable recovery audit services include numerous smaller firms. Because these firms tend to be privately owned, we do not have access to their financial statements, so we cannot be certain as to whether we can continue to compete successfully with our competitors. In recent years, revenues from our core accounts payable recovery audit business have declined, and are expected to continue to decline, due in part to our clients’ continuing development of their own internal recovery audit capabilities. In addition, the trend toward more effective internal recovery audit departments diminishes claims available for us to identify in our recovery audits and is likely to continue to negatively impact our future revenues. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change of control that shareholders may favor. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition not approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive attractive offers for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to 14 Table of Contents negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified board of directors, • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause, • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders, and • the ability of the board of directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community, in making decisions. Our articles of incorporation also permit the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a “poison pill” shareholders’ rights plan that could trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the board of directors. These provisions also could discourage bids for our shares of common stock at a premium and have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have violated our debt covenants in the past and may do so in the future. We have violated the debt covenants of our prior senior credit facility on more than one occasion in the past. Our new senior secured credit facility requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with specified financial ratios and other performance covenants. No assurance can be provided that we will not violate the covenants of our new senior credit facility in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants in the future, our lenders could pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring the immediate repayment in full of all amounts outstanding, if any. Additionally, we cannot be certain that, if the lenders demanded immediate repayment of any amounts outstanding, we would be able to secure adequate or timely replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, if the lenders accelerated repayment demand is subsequently made and we are unable to honor it, cross-default language contained in the indentures underlying our separately-outstanding senior notes and senior convertible notes due March 2011, and any of our untendered convertible notes due November 2006, could also be triggered, potentially accelerating the required repayment of those notes as well. In such an instance, there can likewise be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing that would be required to make such a rapid repayment. Our substantial leverage could materially adversely impact our financial health. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2005, our total outstanding debt was approximately $140.9 million. As of that date, such total indebtedness was greater than our total capitalization by approximately $97.7 million. The instruments governing the new securities issued in the restructuring and the new senior credit facility allow the issuance of additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. Following closing of the financial restructuring transactions, we continue to be highly leveraged. On a pro forma basis, as of December 31, 2005, we would have had approximately $150.6 million of outstanding debt and redeemable preferred stock and a maximum of $15.0 million of additional available borrowings under the new senior secured credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates, particularly with respect to any of our borrowings at variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and 15 Table of Contents • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry. We will have significant interest, dividend, principal and redemption payments under the new securities issued in the exchange offer coming due in the next five years. Our ability to make payments due on the new securities and on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Some or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations and we could be required to file for bankruptcy. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our credit agreements and indentures may limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • issuance of additional common stock on exercise of conversion rights of the new senior convertible notes or the new convertible preferred stock, • future announcements concerning us, key clients or competitors, • quarterly variations in operating results and liquidity, • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, • developments with respect to technology or litigation, • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to our company, • acquisitions and financings, and • sales of blocks of stock by insiders. Fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. General stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We may fail to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market, and the value of our stock may be adversely affected if we fail to maintain such listing. The closing bid price of our common stock, which is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market, has been below $1.00 per share for more than 30 consecutive trading days. On December 12, 2005, we received notice from Nasdaq initiating a process to delist our stock. Such process provides for a 180-day period to cure the $1.00 minimum bid default. Our common stock would have to maintain a closing bid of at least $1.00 for 10 consecutive trading days during the 180-day period to cure such default. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to cure such default. In the event that our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board or the so-called “pink sheets.” Selling our common stock would be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold and transactions could be delayed. In addition, securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us may be further reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents If our common stock is deemed a “penny stock,” its liquidity will be adversely affected. The market price for our common stock is currently below $1.00 per share. If the market price for our common stock remains under $1.00 per share, our common stock may be deemed to be penny stock. If our common stock is considered penny stock, it would be subject to rules that impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers who sell our securities. For example, broker-dealers must make special suitability determinations for purchasers of penny stock and obtain the purchasers’ written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Also, broker-dealers must deliver disclosure schedules disclosing sales commissions and current quotations for the securities to each purchaser of a penny stock. Broker-dealers must also send monthly statements disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the purchaser’s account as well as information regarding the limited market in penny stocks. These rules may cause some broker-dealers to choose not to deal in penny stocks, which could have an adverse effect on the price and liquidity of shares of our common stock. Issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our new preferred stock and new senior convertible notes and pursuant to our new management incentive plan will dilute our common stock. Our new convertible notes and new preferred stock, upon full conversion, would represent in excess of a majority of our outstanding common stock, based on the current number of shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, in order to retain key executive employees, we are adopting a new management incentive plan, pursuant to which certain senior management employees will receive phantom shares of stock that, subject to shareholder approval, will be payable in common stock. We will reserve 10% of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis, as measured on the dates of distribution, to settle phantom shares under the management incentive plan. In addition, we may need to issue additional equity securities in the future in order to execute our business plan or for other reasons, which could lead to further dilution to holders of our common stock. This dilution of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 