Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves numerous types of risks and a high degree of risk generally. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, in evaluating our company and any potential investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have limited capital resources and have continued to incur significant operating losses, all of which threaten and raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have generated net losses of $71,943,941 since our inception and have financed our operations primarily through net proceeds from our initial public offering in May 1996 and cash generated from operations and other financing transactions. Net proceeds from our initial public offering were $60,088,516. Our substantial operating losses have required us to use a substantial amount of cash resources to fund our operations. Net cash used by operations during the year ended December 31, 2006, was $1,058,217, and at December 31, 2006, we had a working capital deficit of $34,451. See Part 1, Item 1, "Business" and Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity." We generally have been unable to enter into licensing agreements with potential licensees upon terms that are acceptable to us, and are pursuing litigation against alleged infringers, as described further in Part 1, Item 1, "Business." To pursue an appeal of unfavorable rulings issued in December 2006 in a Markman hearing, and to continue vigorously pursue these lawsuits generally, we anticipate that we will need to increase our operating expenses due to, among other things, increased litigation costs and related expenses. Accordingly, to remain viable through 2007, it is critical that we raise additional capital through the sale of debt and/or equity securities or from licensing our patents. No assurances can be given that we will be able to raise additional capital or generate capital from our patent licensing business. Unless we raise additional capital, we may have to consider alternatives for winding down our business, which may include offering our patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. 7 The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our audited financial statements included with this report contains a statement noting that our recent history of losses, combined with other factors, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Although our plans to address these issues are discussed in Note 1 to the audited financial statements included in this report and elsewhere in this report, these plans are subject to numerous risks and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, and we can give no assurance as to whether or how long we may be able to succeed in addressing these issues and maintaining our viability as a going concern. We have incurred and continue to incur significant debt relative to our revenues and if we are unable to repay this debt when due, as we have experienced in the past, our operations and flexibility may be restricted and the viability of our Company may be threatened. In 2002, we initiated a convertible note program under which we were authorized to issue up to $1,500,000 principal amount of our 8% convertible secured notes (the "notes"). In February 2006, the convertible note program was amended to allow us to issue up to $3,000,000 of our notes. Prior to August 2006, we had issued an aggregate of $1,575,336 principal amount of notes under this program, including notes with an aggregate principal amount of $536,336 that have been converted into shares of our common stock. These notes bear interest at 8%, are convertible into our common stock at a conversion rate of $.20 per share (for notes issued prior to the April 2006 amendment to the program) or $.50 per share (for notes issued in May 2006), and are secured by our equity interest in our decisioning.com, Inc. subsidiary, which owns our patent portfolio. Principal and interest under these notes generally becomes payable in full on the second anniversary of the date on which these notes were issued. However, under the terms of the notes, the full amount of principal and interest under all notes may be declared immediately due and payable in certain events, including bankruptcy or similar proceedings involving us, a default in the payment of principal and interest under any note, or a change in control of the Company. From June 2004 through August 2006, we were in default regarding payment of principal and interest due under certain of the notes. Accordingly, the full amount of principal and interest outstanding under all notes was payable at the option of all noteholders. At December 31, 2005, the amount of principal and accrued interest outstanding under all of the notes was $1,595,906. In August 2006, we and the holders of all outstanding notes entered into an amended and restated note purchase agreement under which such holders agreed to extend the maturity date of such notes by exchanging them (including all interest accrued thereon) for new two-year notes due in August 2008 in the aggregate principal amount of $1,268,027. Under the amended note purchase agreement, we may issue notes in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5,000,000 (including the notes issued to current noteholders, as described in the preceding sentence) having an exercise price determined by us and each investor at the time of issuance. The new notes issued in August 2006 have the same terms as the old notes exchanged therefor, except that the new notes will mature in August 2008. Of the new notes issued, notes with a principal amount of $1,115,068 are convertible into shares of our common stock at $.20 per share, and notes with a principal amount of $152,959 are convertible into shares of our common stock at $.50 per share. The new notes include a note in the principal amount of $166,863 issued to our Chief Executive Officer and a note in the principal amount of $122,115 issued to a subsidiary of The South Financial Group. The South Financial Group Foundation, a non-profit foundation established by the South Financial Group, owns approximately 10% of our outstanding capital stock. In September 2006, we sold additional convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1,905,000. The terms of these notes are the same as the notes we previously issued, except that they may be converted into our common stock at a rate of $.42 per share, and we have agreed to prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, on or before January 31, 2007, a registration statement with respect to our common stock issuable upon conversion of these notes. 8 Although our refinancing in August 2006 of the notes under which we were previously in default and our additional issuance of notes in September 2006 have afforded us additional time and resources to execute our business strategy, we can give no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or in generating revenues sufficient to repay this indebtedness when due. In such an event, the lenders under these notes would have the option to declare all amounts under the notes due and payable, and our resulting inability to pay could force us to liquidate or otherwise wind down our business operations, including our possible filing for bankruptcy protection and the potential loss of our patents through sale or foreclosure by the holders of the notes pursuant to their security interest in our patents. Our business depends exclusively on the success of our patent licensing program, which if unsuccessful, will threaten our survival. Due to capital constraints, we have suspended efforts to deploy our loan processing products and services. Our business activities currently consist exclusively of attempting to license certain of our patents. Our prospects are wholly dependent on our ability to finance and execute a sustainable patent licensing program. Even though we believe there are companies that may be using systems, processes and methods covered by our patents, it is not known whether we will be able to enter into any new licensing agreements. Moreover, we may not have the resources to sustain our patent licensing program, enforce our patent rights, finance any related litigation, or successfully negotiate patent licenses on terms that will generate meaningful future revenues. We are further subject to the risk that negotiations to license our patents may be lengthy and that it may be necessary for us to become involved in additional litigation to assert and protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we generally have been unable to enter into licensing agreements with potential licensees upon terms that are acceptable to us. As a result, we have been forced to become involved in litigation with alleged infringers. Currently, we are involved in three patent litigation actions. We believe that these lawsuits may take an extended period of time to complete. We can give no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to complete these lawsuits or that we will be successful in obtaining a favorable outcome. Prolonged patent litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Challenges to our patents could significantly diminish or eliminate any potential value these patents may have to us. All of our patents have been subject to reexamination by the PTO as a result of challenges to such patents by third parties. Additionally, we have lawsuits pending against alleged infringers of our patents. For more information regarding these reexaminations and lawsuits, see Part I, Item 1, "Business." In conjunction with these lawsuits, a Markman hearing was held in December 2006, in which the court interpreted certain of our patent's claim terms in a manner unacceptable and unfavorable to us. Unless we can obtain a more favorable interpretation of the claim terms, likely through an appeal of the ruling, which may require substantial resources and extended time to complete, it is possible that the scope of our patents could be significantly limited. Defendants in these lawsuits have challenged the validity of our patents by requesting reexaminations and otherwise, and we expect that current or future defendants will continue to challenge the validity of our patents and assert non-infringement as a defense. It is also possible that other third parties may bring additional actions to contest all or some of our patents. We may lose all or some of the claims covered by our existing patents as a result of existing or future challenges. The loss of all or some of our claims or a significant limitation of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute a successful patent licensing program. Moreover, if other parties request reexaminations of or otherwise challenge our patents in the future, we are subject to the risk that such proceeding may not be resolved to our satisfaction on a timely basis, if at all. Any such proceeding may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Further, in the event a challenge to our patents results in a significant loss of all or some of its claims, our only remedy may be to contest the decision, which would likely be a lengthy process. Due to our limited capital resources, it is unlikely that we could successfully contest such a decision without additional cash resources. If the e-commerce channels and processes on which our patents depend are rendered obsolete, incompatible, or undesirable due to changes in technology, shifting consumer preferences or competition from products and services delivered by more traditional or other means, our business and the potential value of our patents would be materially and adversely affected. 9 Our patents are specific to the e-commerce businesses of the financial services industry and generally cover the automated establishment of loans, financial accounts and credit accounts using specific e-commerce related systems, processes and methods. The market for products and services that enable e-commerce is subject to change and technological development, shifting consumer preferences, new product introductions and competition from traditional products and services having all or some of the same features as products and services which enable e-commerce. It is possible that new products or technologies may be developed that may render obsolete the systems, processes and methods over which we believe we have intellectual property rights. Moreover, the delivery of products and services through e-commerce channels is not fully developed, and competition from traditional channels to deliver these same products and services is intense. Any wide-scale rejection of e-commerce channels by consumers will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Because of the highly technical and specialized business of patent licensing, our success depends on the expertise and efforts of third parties we engage at significant expense. Patent licensing is a highly technical and specialized business which requires that we rely on the services of third parties. We have appointed Withrow & Terranova, PLLC ("W&T") as our exclusive patent licensing agent. Under the terms of the agreement, W&T has agreed, among other things, to perform market research, initiate the sales of patent license agreements, negotiate patent licensing arrangements with third parties, and represent us as legal counsel in connection with the enforcement of our patents. Accordingly, we are dependent on the efforts of W&T to successfully execute our patent licensing program. Additionally, the agreement requires W&T to coordinate the engagement of experts, on terms satisfactory to us, if litigation becomes necessary to enforce our patent rights. Moreover, experts frequently request and charge significant fees. In addition, because of the specialized knowledge required to perform these duties, we may not be able to critically evaluate the advice, efforts, judgments and recommendations of these experts and to know whether our interests would be better served by additional or different advice or expertise. To the extent the advice, efforts, judgments or recommendations of our third party experts prove inferior to other alternatives, our patent licensing program, business prospects and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly results tend to fluctuate significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Since its inception, our quarterly results have fluctuated and have not been susceptible to meaningful period-to-period comparisons. We believe that we may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that our period-to-period revenue and operating results will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to successfully negotiate and enter into patent licensing agreements and the timing, terms and the pricing attributes of any such agreements. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of our revenues, coupled with the risk of substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The loss of the services of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business and our existing financial condition and adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees and executives to further our business interests. We are highly dependent on the services of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph A. Boyle, but do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Boyle or "key man" insurance on his life. The complete loss of the services of Mr. Boyle could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Based on our existing financial condition, we maintain a minimal staff and have not sought to recruit new key employees and executives who possess the experience, knowledge and skills to assist us in furthering our business interests or expanding our operations. In any event, we believe that it would be difficult to attract and retain such employees in light of our existing financial condition. 10 We have a significant number of securities outstanding that are convertible into our common stock, and the conversion of these securities could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. We have issued notes that are convertible into common stock at $0.20, $0.50 and $0.42 per share, which conversion prices could be substantially less than the market price of the common stock at the time of conversion. The issuance of stock at a price that is less than the market price could have an immediate adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, we have issued options and warrants to acquire shares of our common stock. See Notes 4 & 5 to our audited financial statements included in this report for more information regarding these convertible notes, options and warrants. We may issue additional convertible notes or warrants in connection with financing arrangements and may grant additional stock options that may further dilute our common stock. The exercise of such securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, to the extent that persons who acquire shares under all the foregoing agreements sell those shares in the open market, the price of our shares may decrease due to additional shares in the market. Our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in price and volume, which could cause rapid and significant losses in the value of our common stock and subject us to litigation from stockholders. Our common stock price has been volatile and has experienced substantial and sudden fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have especially affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies directly and indirectly involved in the technology sector, and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. The institution of such litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock is considered a penny stock and is not traded on a regulated market such as NASDAQ or a major stock exchange. Accordingly, our common stock may be more difficult to trade, and investors may lose the benefit of certain rules and regulations that govern securities traded in regulated markets. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the major stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is also subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A "penny stock" is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. If you buy or sell a penny stock from a broker or dealer, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock is generally subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Penny stock regulations tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. In addition, companies whose securities are listed on NASDAQ or other major stock exchanges are required to comply with certain corporate governance and disclosure requirements that are designed to protect investors in those stocks. 11 Because our common stock is not so regulated, our observance of many of these requirements and practices is not mandated, and to the extent we determine not to observe such practices or are unable to do so because of cost constraints, investors in our common stock will not have the benefit of these protections, and the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our governing documents could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may also have the effect of discouraging or preventing certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of the Company (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Certain of these provisions allow us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and other rights that could adversely affect the interests of holders of common stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, for example, could decrease the amount of earnings or assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock, as well as having the anti-takeover effects discussed above. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 