Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition, and the textile industry in which we operate, are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, but they do not constitute all of the risks that may be applicable to us, our business or our industry. New risks may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all potential risks or to assess with certainty the likely impact of all risks. The discussion below is intended as a summary only of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning certain of the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” You should consider all such risks in evaluating the Company or making any investment decision involving the Company. 11 Risks Relating to Our Business The Company faces intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign yarn producers and importers of textile and apparel products. Because the Company and the supply chains in which the Company operates do not typically operate on the basis of long-term contracts with textile and apparel customers, these competitive factors could cause the Company’s customers to shift rapidly to other producers. The Company competes not only against domestic and foreign yarn producers, but also against importers of foreign-sourced fabric and apparel into the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business (particularly in Brazil with respect to commodity yarn products). The primary competitive factors in the textile industry include price, quality, product styling and differentiation, flexibility of production and finishing, delivery time and customer service. The needs of certain customers and the characteristics of particular products determine the relative importance of these various factors. A large number of the Company’s foreign competitors have significant competitive advantages, including lower labor and raw materials costs, government subsidies, and favorable currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. If any of these advantages increase, or if new and/or larger competitors emerge in the future, the Company’s products could become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result. In particular, devaluation of Chinese currency against the U.S. Dollar could result in the Company’s products becoming less competitive from a pricing standpoint and/or could result in the regions covered by NAFTA and CAFTA losing market share to Chinese imports, thereby adversely impacting the Company’s sales and profits. Also, while these foreign competitors have traditionally focused on commodity production, they are now increasingly focused on value-added products, where the Company has been able to generate higher margins. The Company may not be able to continue to compete effectively with imported foreign-made textile and apparel products, which would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In Brazil, Petrosuape-Companhia Petroquimica de Pernambuco (“Petrosuape”), a subsidiary of Petrobras Petroleo Brasileiro S.A., a public oil company controlled by the Brazilian government, had constructed a polyester manufacturing complex located in the northeast sector of the country. Petrosuape was expected to produce PTA, polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) resin, POY and textured polyester, with the potential to become a significant competitor of the Company’s Brazilian operations. While there have been recent negative developments involving Petrosuape and its manufacturing complex, if the facility were to reach full commercial production of textured polyester, its operations could significantly impact the synthetic textile filament market in Brazil, thereby negatively impacting the operating results of the Company. Significant price volatility of the Company’s raw materials and rising energy costs may result in increased production costs, which the Company may not be able to pass on to its customers, or be able to pass on without a time lag that adversely affects the Company during one or more periods. A significant portion of the Company’s raw materials are derived from petroleum-based chemicals. The prices for petroleum and petroleum-related products (and energy costs) are volatile and dependent on global supply and demand dynamics, including geo-political risks. While the Company enters into raw material supply agreements from time to time, these agreements typically provide index pricing based on quoted market prices. Therefore, supply agreements provide only limited protection against price volatility. While the Company has, at times in the past, been able to increase sales prices in response to increased raw material costs, the Company has not always been able to do so. The Company has lost in the past (and expects that it may lose in the future) customers to its competitors as a result of price increases. In addition, competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost due to market regulations that favor local producers in certain foreign locations where the Company operates, and certain other market regulations that favor the Company over other producers may be amended or repealed. Additionally, inflation can have a long-term impact by increasing the costs of materials, labor and/or energy, any of which costs may adversely impact the Company’s ability to maintain satisfactory margins. If the Company is not able to fully pass on such cost increases to customers in a timely manner (or if it loses a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases), the result could be material and adverse to its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Depending on the price volatility of the Company’s petroleum-based raw materials, the price gap between virgin raw materials and recycled bottle flake could make virgin raw materials more cost-effective than recycled raw materials, which could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to sell its REPREVE® brand recycled products profitably. The Company depends upon limited sources for certain of its raw materials, and interruptions in supply could increase its costs of production, cause production inefficiencies, or lead to a halt in production in an extreme case. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties for certain raw material supplies, such as POY and Chip. Although alternative sources of raw materials exist, the Company may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of such materials on acceptable terms, or at all, from other sources. The Company is dependent on NAFTA, CAFTA and Berry Amendment 12 qualified suppliers of raw material for the production of Compliant Yarns. These suppliers are also at risk with their raw material supply chains. Any significant disruption or curtailment in the supply of any of its raw materials could cause the Company to reduce (or cease, in an extreme case) its production for an extended period, or require the Company to increase its pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company has significant foreign operations, and its consolidated results of operations may be adversely affected by the risks associated with doing business in foreign locations, including the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company has operations in Brazil, China, Colombia and El Salvador, and participates in a foreign joint venture located in Israel. The Company serves customers in Canada, Mexico and various countries in Europe, Central America, South America and Asia. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to certain political, tax, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by its domestic operations that can materially impact the Company’s supply chains or other aspects of its foreign operations. The risks of international operations include trade barriers, duties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political unrest, general economic risks, compliance with a variety of foreign laws (including tax laws), the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, taxes on distributions or deemed distributions to the Company or any of its U.S. subsidiaries, maintenance of minimum capital requirements, and import and export controls. The Company’s results of operations and business could be adversely affected as a result of a significant adverse development with respect to any of these matters. Through its foreign operations, the Company is also exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will impact period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s reported results. Additionally, the Company operates in countries with foreign exchange controls. These controls may limit the Company’s ability to transfer funds from its international operations and joint venture or otherwise to convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access cash from these operations. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of the Company’s facilities may cause significant lost production. The Company’s manufacturing processes could be affected by operational problems that could impair its production capability. Disruptions at any of its facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroads, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties (including hiring and retention of skilled wage laborers in manufacturing facilities); or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of its facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is implementing various strategic business initiatives, and the success of the Company’s business will depend on its ability to effectively develop and implement these initiatives. The Company is exploring, developing and implementing various strategic business initiatives to improve the Company’s competitive advantage and profitability and enhance shareholder value. These initiatives include expanding branded PVA yarns, increasing the market penetration of REPREVE® product offerings, expanding production capabilities for recycled yarn products and constructing and operating a plastic bottle processing facility. These activities require significant financial and management commitments, outside of day-to-day operations, and the Company has not previously operated a bottle processing facility. If the Company is unable to implement an important initiative in a timely manner, or if those initiatives turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company’s future success will depend in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights, and the Company’s inability to enforce these rights could cause it to lose sales and its competitive advantage. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to protect and preserve its rights in the trademarks and other intellectual property it owns or licenses, including its proprietary know-how, methods and processes, and the intellectual property related to its REPREVE® brand. The Company relies on the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and other countries, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect its intellectual property rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties, employees or contractors from using its intellectual property without authorization, breaching nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements with it, or independently developing technology that is similar to the Company’s property. The use of the Company’s intellectual property by others without authorization may reduce any competitive advantage that the Company has developed, cause it to lose sales or otherwise harm its business. 13 The success of the Company depends on the ability of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to work together effectively to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s important strategic initiatives. The Company does not have employment agreements with the members of its management team and cannot ensure investors that any of these individuals will remain with the Company. The Company does not have key man life insurance policies on any of the members of the management team. The failure to retain key managers or key members of the Company’s design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for its operations, could be detrimental to the Company’s operations and ability to execute its strategic business initiatives. The Economic Adjustment Assistance to Users of Upland Cotton may be discontinued, which could adversely affect PAL and thereby the Company’s earnings and cash flows from that joint venture. PAL, which is one of the Company’s joint ventures, receives economic adjustment payments (“EAP”) from the Commodity Credit Corporation under the Economic Adjustment Assistance to Users of Upland Cotton. The economic assistance received under this program must be used to acquire, construct, install, modernize, develop, convert or expand land, plant, buildings, equipment or machinery directly attributable to the purpose of manufacturing upland cotton into eligible cotton products in the U.S. Should PAL no longer meet the criteria to receive economic assistance under the program, or should the program be discontinued, PAL’s business could be significantly impacted, which would adversely affect the Company. The Company has an investment in PAL, an entity that the Company does not control, which subjects the Company to uncertainties about PAL’s operating performance and PAL’s ability and willingness to make distributions of profits or cash flow to the Company, and to risks from reliance on PAL’s financial information. The Company has a minority interest investment in PAL, an entity that the Company does not control. While this investment is designed to advance important business interests of the Company, the Company does not have majority voting control of PAL or the ability otherwise to control PAL’s policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control PAL may differ from the Company’s, and those persons may cause PAL to take actions that are not in the Company’s best interest. Among other things, the Company’s inability to control PAL may adversely affect its ability to receive distributions from PAL or to fully implement its business plan. The incurrence of debt or entry into other agreements by PAL may result in restrictions or prohibitions on PAL’s ability to make distributions to the Company. Even where PAL is not restricted by contract or by law from making distributions, the Company may not be able to influence the timing or amount of such distributions. In addition, if the controlling investor in PAL fails to observe its commitments, PAL may not be able to operate according to its business plan, or the Company may need to increase its level of investment commitment. If any of these events were to occur, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company also relies on accurate financial reporting from PAL for preparation of the Company’s quarterly and annual financial statements. Errors in the financial information reported by PAL could be material to the Company and may require it to restate past financial statements. Any such restatements could have a material adverse effect on the Company or the market price of its common stock. The Company requires cash to service its indebtedness and fund capital expenditures and strategic initiatives, and its ability to generate sufficient cash for those purposes depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under its credit facility. The Company’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to fund strategic initiatives will depend on its ability to generate future cash flows from operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. The business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to the Company in amounts sufficient, to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 14 Risks Relating to the Textile Industry A decline in general economic or political conditions, and changes in consumer spending, could cause a decline in demand for textile products. The Company’s products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishings, automotive, industrial and other end-use markets. Demand for furniture and durable goods is often affected significantly by economic conditions that have global or regional industry-wide consequences. Demand for a number of categories of apparel also tends to be tied to economic cycles and customer preferences that affect the textile industry in general. Demand for textile products, therefore, tends to vary with the business cycles of the U.S. and other economies, as well as changes in global trade flows, and economic and political conditions. Changes in trade policy could weaken the Company’s competitive position significantly and have a material adverse effect on its business. A number of markets within the textile industry in which the Company sells its products – particularly the apparel, hosiery and home furnishings markets – are subject to intense foreign competition. Other markets within the textile industry in which the Company sells its products may in the future become subject to more intense foreign competition. There are currently a number of trade regulations and duties in place to protect the U.S. textile industry against competition from low-priced foreign producers, such as those in China and Vietnam. Changes in such trade regulations or duties may make the price of the Company’s products less attractive than the goods of its competitors or the finished products of a competitor in the supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. An increase of illegal transshipments of textile and apparel goods into the U.S. (or into the NAFTA or CAFTA regions) could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. According to industry experts and trade associations, there has been a significant amount of illegal transshipments of apparel products into the U.S. and into certain other countries in the NAFTA and CAFTA regions. Such illegal transshipments, at whatever level they reach, may negatively impact the markets in which the Company competes. Illegal transshipment involves circumventing duties by falsely claiming that textiles and apparel are products of a particular country of origin (or include yarn of a particular country of origin) to avoid paying higher duties or to receive benefits from regional free trade agreements, such as NAFTA and CAFTA. If illegal transshipments are not monitored, and if enforcement is not effective to limit them, these shipments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The outcome of negotiations for a trade agreement among the TPP participating countries is unpredictable and could lead to provisions that materially and adversely affect the U.S. textile industry and apparel market in future years. The U.S. government is engaged in negotiations that have been ongoing for several years relating to the TPP. Other countries participating in the TPP negotiations include Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. Several of these countries, including Vietnam, are seeking immediate duty-free treatment (or the lack of a yarn forward rule of origin) in the final TPP with respect to yarns, fabrics and most apparel. Such an outcome in the TPP, when and if the TPP is concluded and implemented, could materially and adversely affect the U.S. textile industry and apparel market and Western Hemisphere supply chains in future years. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following is a description of the name, age, position and offices held, and the period served in such position or offices, for each of the executive officers of the Company. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer WILLIAM L. JASPER — Age: 62 – Mr. Jasper has been Chairman of the Board since February 2011 and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. From September 2007 to February 2011, he was also President of the Company. Mr. Jasper joined the Company in September 2004, was appointed as the General Manager of the Polyester Division in June 2005, and 15 in April 2006 was promoted to Vice President of Sales. Prior to joining the Company, he was the Director of INVISTA’s Dacron® polyester filament business. Before working at INVISTA, Mr. Jasper had held various management positions in operations, technology, sales and business for DuPont since 1980. He has been a member of the Board since September 2007 and is Chair of the Board’s Executive Committee. President and Chief Operating Officer R. ROGER BERRIER, JR. — Age: 46 – Mr. Berrier has been President and Chief Operating Officer since February 2011. Mr. Berrier had been the Executive Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Asian Operations of the Company from September 2007 until his promotion in 2011. Prior to 2007, Mr. Berrier had been Vice President of Commercial Operations (since April 2006) and Commercial Operations Manager responsible for corporate product development, marketing and brand sales management (from April 2004 to April 2006). Mr. Berrier joined the Company in 1991 and had held various other management positions within operations, including international operations, machinery technology, research and development and quality control before assuming the above positions. He has been a member of the Board since September 2007 and is a member of the Board’s Executive Committee. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer JAMES M. OTTERBERG — Age: 44 – Mr. Otterberg has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 23, 2013, having served as interim Chief Financial Officer from August 12, 2013. Mr. Otterberg is also the Company’s principal accounting officer, a role he has held since October 2011. Mr. Otterberg was employed by the Company’s principal operating subsidiary, Unifi Manufacturing, Inc. (“UMI”), from June 2011 to October 2013 as its Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, and previously from October 1999 to December 2003 as Director – Joint Ventures and Alliances and Corporate Financial Analyst. Mr. Otterberg also held various financial positions for Polymer Group, Inc. from 2004 to 2011, including Vice President – Finance U.S. from February 2008 through May 2011. Vice President of Manufacturing THOMAS H. CAUDLE, JR. — Age: 63 – Mr. Caudle has been the Company’s Vice President of Manufacturing since October 2006. Before that time, he was Vice President of Global Operations of the Company (from April 2003 until October 2006), UMI’s Senior Vice President in charge of manufacturing (since July 2000) and Vice President of Manufacturing Services (since January 1999). Mr. Caudle has been an employee of the Company since 1982. Each of the executive officers was reelected to his current position by the Board at its meeting on October 22, 2014. Each executive officer serves in his position at the pleasure of the Board. No executive officer has a family relationship as close as first cousin with any other executive officer or director. 16 