ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Revenue from our accounts payable recovery audit business declined for several years through 2010. We must successfully execute our recovery audit growth strategy in order to increase our revenue, and must lower our cost of delivery in order to maintain profitability. Over time, our clients tend to resolve recurring transaction processing deficiencies. In addition, many of our clients have an internal staff that audits the transactions before we do. As the skills, experience and resources of our clients’ internal recovery audit staffs improve, they will identify many overpayments themselves and reduce some of our audit recovery opportunities. Based on these and other factors, including competitive rate pressures and loss of clients from time to time, without improved audit execution and acquisition of new clients, we believe that our accounts payable recovery audit business will experience revenue declines and may incur losses. We depend on our largest clients for significant revenue, so losing a major client could adversely affect our revenue and liquidity. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from our largest clients. Our five largest clients collectively accounted for approximately 28.2% of our annual revenue in 2012, 30.2% in 2011 and 31.3% in 2010. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (and its affiliated companies) accounted for approximately 10.2% of our total revenue in 2011 and 12.1% in 2010. No client accounted for 10% or more of total revenue in 2012. If we lose any of our major clients, our results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Although we continually seek to diversify our client base, we may be unable to offset the effects of an adverse change in one of our key client relationships. For example, if our existing clients elect not to renew their contracts with us at the expiration of the current terms of those contracts, or reduce the services they purchase thereunder, our recurring revenue base will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth strategy may not be successful. As discussed in Item 1 “The PRGX Strategy,” our objectives are to build on our position as the leading worldwide provider of recovery audit services and to develop and grow our Profit Optimization and Healthcare Claims Recovery Audit services businesses. Our strategic plan to achieve these objectives focuses on efforts designed to maintain our dedicated focus on clients and rekindle our growth. These efforts are ongoing, and the results of the strategy will not be known until sometime in the future. Successful execution of our strategy requires sustained management focus, organization and coordination over time, as well as success in building relationships with third parties. If we are unable to execute our strategy successfully, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, execution of our strategy will require material investments and additional costs that may not yield incremental revenue and improved financial performance as planned. Our acquisitions, investments, partnerships and strategic alliances may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. Acquisitions have contributed to our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances will be important to our growth strategy. We may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: • problems with effective integration of acquired operations; • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; • increased operating costs; • the diversion of our management team from its other operations; • problems with regulatory agencies; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and • changes in our credit rating and financing costs. The terms of our credit facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and reduce our flexibility. Our current credit facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and require us to comply with specified financial ratios and other performance covenants. No assurance can be provided that we will not violate the covenants of our secured credit facility in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants in the future, our lenders could pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring the immediate repayment in full of all amounts outstanding, if any. Additionally, we cannot be certain that, if the lenders demanded immediate repayment of any amounts outstanding, we would be able to secure adequate or timely replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to make payments due on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient to make these payments, we may take actions such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Some or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations and we could be required to file for bankruptcy. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our credit agreements may limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in establishing the necessary resources to provide services for Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare claims audit recovery work. We have expended substantial resources in connection with preparing for and providing healthcare claims recovery audit services, including those under CMS’s Medicare RAC program. We continue to incur significant costs relating to our healthcare claims recovery audit services business, including our participation as a subcontractor in the national Medicare RAC program. In addition, as a result of the complex regulations governing many healthcare payments and recoupments, including a multi-layered scheme for provider appeals of overpayment determinations under the Medicare RAC program, the terms of the Company’s Medicare RAC subcontracts and the complexity of Medicare and other healthcare data, systems and processes, generally, it is more difficult and takes longer to achieve recoveries from healthcare claims recovery auditing than in other areas of our recovery audit business. Our participation in the Medicare recovery audit program is as a subcontractor, and, consequently, is subject to being reduced or eliminated should our subcontracts be terminated or should the prime contractors with whom we have contracted have their prime contracts with CMS terminated or should those contracts expire. Under CMS’s Medicare recovery audit contractor program, we are participating as a subcontractor in three of the program’s four geographic regions. Accordingly, we have entered into three separate subcontracts with the prime contractors and are not directly contracting with CMS. Under these circumstances, we generally bear the risk that the prime contractors will not meet their performance obligations to CMS under the prime contract, that the prime 11 Table of Contents contractors will not pay us amounts due under the subcontracts and that the prime contractors will seek to terminate our subcontracts or otherwise minimize our role in the Medicare RAC program. Furthermore, the failure of a prime contractor to perform its obligations to CMS could result in the termination of the associated contract with CMS, which would, in turn, result in the termination of our subcontract. Additionally, based on recent developments, we believe CMS has agreed with the prime contractors to allow the prime contracts to expire in August 2013, subject to extension by CMS to allow for a transition period to the new RAC contracts. Should the prime contracts expire in August 2013, our RAC subcontracts will also expire at that time, subject to any additional extensions by CMS in connection with a transition to the new RAC contracts. The termination or expiration of any of these subcontracts or the failure of the prime contractors to make required payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recovery auditing of Medicare and Medicaid spending is subject to a number of pressures and uncertainties that could impact our future opportunities and revenue from this business. As contrasted with recovery audit services provided to our retail and commercial clients, recovery auditing of Medicare and Medicaid spending is legislatively mandated and is subject to, among other things, the efforts of healthcare providers and provider associations, including political pressures, to end or severely limit the Medicare and Medicaid recovery audit programs. We expect these efforts and political pressures to be ongoing throughout the life of these programs. If federally mandated recovery audit programs are significantly limited or delayed, subjected to burdensome or commercially challenging requirements, terms and/or conditions, or altogether terminated, our future revenue, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The prime contracts for the Medicare recovery audit program are expected to expire in August 2013, subject to an extension by CMS to allow for a transition period to the new RAC contracts, and we may not be selected to receive any prime contracts or subcontracts during the re-bid process. We currently serve as a subcontractor to the prime contractor on three of the four prime contracts in the Medicare RAC program. Based on recent developments, we believe CMS has agreed with the prime contractors to allow the prime contracts to expire in August 2013, subject to extension by CMS to allow for a transition period to the new RAC contracts. Should the prime contracts expire in August 2013, our RAC subcontracts will also expire at that time, subject to any additional extensions by CMS in connection with the transition to new RAC contracts, and contracts for the performance of future Medicare RAC services will be subject to a bidding process administered by CMS. CMS issued a request for proposals in connection with the re-bidding for the RAC contracts, and the proposals are due by March 27, 2013. CMS is expected to award the RAC contracts to more than one contractor and divide the country into geographic regions for contracting purposes. We will be competing to participate in the RAC program as a prime contractor through the bidding process. While we believe we are well-positioned to compete in the bidding process, there are no assurances that we will receive any contract when the new Medicare RAC contracts are ultimately awarded. The failure to receive any of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect and maintain the competitive advantage of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to protect our proprietary software, audit techniques and methodologies, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Although we presently hold U.S. and foreign registered trademarks and U.S. registered copyrights on certain of our proprietary technology, we may be unable to obtain similar protection on our other intellectual property. In addition, our foreign registered trademarks may not receive the same enforcement protection as our U.S. registered trademarks. Additionally, to protect our confidential and trade secret information, we generally enter into nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients. We also limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation or unauthorized dissemination of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In spite of the level of care taken to protect our intellectual property, there is no guarantee that our sensitive proprietary information will not be improperly accessed or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Moreover, 12 Table of Contents although we are not aware of any infringement of our services and products on the intellectual property rights of others, we also are subject to the risk that someone else will assert a claim against us in the future for violating their intellectual property rights. Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability. We receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our clients and others. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. These cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the Internet or other electronic networks. Despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our clients and others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our clients or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation, (iii) expose us to liability to our clients, third parties or government authorities, and (iv) cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational failures in our data processing facilities could harm our business and reputation. An interruption of data processing services caused by damage or destruction of our facilities or a failure of our data processing equipment could result in a loss of clients, difficulties in obtaining new clients and a reduction in revenue. In addition, we also may be liable to third parties or our clients because of such interruption. These risks would increase with longer service interruptions. Despite any disaster recovery and business continuity plans and precautions we have implemented (including insurance) to protect against the effects of service delivery interruptions, such interruptions could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our investment of substantial capital in information technology systems, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. We have invested and continue to invest substantial amounts in the development and implementation of information technology systems. Although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that such systems will justify the related investments. If we fail to realize the benefits expected from our information technology system investments, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Client and vendor bankruptcies and financial difficulties could reduce our earnings. Our clients generally operate in intensely competitive environments and, accordingly, bankruptcy filings by our clients are not uncommon. Bankruptcy filings by our large clients or the significant vendors who supply them or unexpectedly large vendor claim chargebacks lodged against one or more of our larger clients could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, our inability to collect our accounts receivable due to other financial difficulties of one or more of our large clients could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Recent economic conditions which have adversely impacted the retail industry in the U.K and Europe may continue to have a negative impact on our revenue. Since we generally audit our clients’ purchases up to 15 months in arrears, we cannot yet determine if we have experienced the full impact of the recent economic downturn on our business and revenue. Specifically, client liquidity and the liquidity of client vendors can have a significant impact on claim production, the claim approval process, and the ability of clients to offset or otherwise make recoveries from their vendors. 13 Table of Contents If a client files for bankruptcy, we could be subject to an action to recover certain payments received in the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing known as “preference payments.” If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we would be required to make unbudgeted cash payments which could strain our financial liquidity, and our earnings would be reduced. Our failure to retain the services of key members of our management team and highly skilled personnel could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. Our future success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our management team, including our executive officers and other key employees. As such, we have entered into employment agreements with key members of our management team. While these employment agreements include limits on the ability of key employees to directly compete with us in the future, nothing prevents them from leaving our company. We also do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or other key employees. Thus, we may have to incur costs to replace such employees if we were to lose their services, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such employees in a timely manner. In addition, it is especially challenging to attract and retain highly qualified skilled auditors and other professionals in an industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense. Accordingly, our future performance also depends, in part, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, manage our workforce, and retain highly qualified personnel. We rely on operations outside the U.S. for a significant portion of our revenue and are increasingly dependent on operations outside the U.S. for supporting our operations globally. Operations outside the U.S. generated approximately 40.4% of our annual revenue in 2012, 47.3% in 2011 and 49.7% in 2010. These international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war in the international markets we serve; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly weaknesses in the British pound, the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Brazilian real and other currencies of countries in which we transact business, which could result in currency translations that materially reduce our revenue and earnings; • costs associated with adapting our services to our foreign clients’ needs; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • expenses and legal restrictions associated with transferring earnings from our foreign subsidiaries to us; • difficulties complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data content retention, privacy and employee welfare; • business interruptions due to widespread disease, potential terrorist activities, or other catastrophes; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property rights; • longer accounts receivable cycles; and • competition with large or state-owned enterprises or regulations that effectively limit our operations and favor local competitors. Because we expect a significant portion of our revenue to continue to come from operations outside the U.S., and expect to continue transitioning certain of our operations to locations outside the U.S., the occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In 2012, our European operations accounted for approximately 23.6% of our consolidated revenue. There have been continuing concerns and uncertainties regarding the stability of the European economies. A decline in the economic conditions in Europe may materially and adversely affect our operations both in Europe and on a consolidated basis. Furthermore, in 2010 we began transitioning certain of our core data processing and other functions to locations outside the U.S., including India, where 12% of our employees were located at December 31, 2012. While our operations in India have been key to serving clients more efficiently and cost-effectively under our Next-Generation Recovery Audit service delivery model, India has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities with Pakistan. In recent years, there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border as well as terrorist activity in several major Indian cities. Although the relations between the two countries generally have been improving, military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could adversely affect the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services from India. Disruption in our Indian operations could materially and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our Next-Generation Recovery Audit, Healthcare Claims Recovery Audit and Profit Optimization services businesses operate in highly competitive environments and are subject to pricing pressure. The environment in which our business operates is highly competitive, with numerous other recovery audit firms and other service providers. In addition, many of our recovery audit clients have developed their own internal recovery audit capabilities. As a result of competition among the providers of these services and the availability of certain recovery audit services from clients’ internal audit departments, our business is subject to intense price pressure. In addition, our Healthcare Claims Recovery Audit services business currently is involved in a very competitive process of bidding for a new contract under the Medicare RAC program. We may not be awarded a region to audit, or may be awarded a region at a lower contingency rate than we currently earn. Our Profit Optimization services business also has numerous competitors varying in size, market strength and specialization, many of whom have established and well-known franchises and brands. Intense price competition faced by all of our service lines could negatively impact our profit margins and have a potential adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our client contracts generally contain provisions under which the client may terminate our services prior to the completion of the agreement. Many of our client contracts provide that the client may terminate the contract without cause prior to the end of the term of the agreement by providing us with relatively short prior written notice of the termination. As a result, the existence of contractual relationships with our clients is not an assurance that we will continue to provide services for our clients through the entire terms of their respective agreements. If clients representing a significant portion of our revenue terminated their agreements unexpectedly, we may not, in the short-term, be able to replace the revenue and earnings from such contracts and this would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, client contract terminations also could harm our reputation within the industry which could negatively impact our ability to obtain new clients. Our charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We account for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. We allocate the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required in purchase accounting including the following: • we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; • we will incur additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets; and 15 Table of Contents • to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental privacy laws and regulations could substantially impact our business, operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations. Changes in privacy laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations could have a substantial effect on our operating methods and costs. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in the termination or loss of contracts, the imposition of contractual damages, civil sanctions, damage to the Company’s reputation, or in certain circumstances, criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Determining compliance with such regulations is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts, and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. There can be no assurance that we are or have been in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with new laws or regulations. The ownership change that occurred as a result of our 2006 exchange offer limits our ability to use our net operating losses. We have substantial tax loss and credit carry-forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On March 17, 2006, as a result of the closing of its exchange offer, the Company experienced an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). This ownership change resulted in an annual IRC Section 382 limitation that limits the use of certain tax attribute carry-forwards. Of the $78.6 million of U.S. federal net loss carry-forwards available to the Company, $17.8 million of the loss carry-forwards are subject to an annual usage limitation of $1.4 million. We believe that such limitations and the loss of these carry-forwards may significantly increase our projected future tax liability. We currently are in the process of determining if we experienced an ownership change subsequent to March 17, 2006, but have not yet completed this analysis. Based on preliminary calculations we have made with the assistance of external advisors, we believe that any additional limitations on the usage of our loss carry-forwards that would be imposed if an additional ownership change has occurred would be minimal. We do not believe that an additional ownership change would have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and if successful, these challenges could increase our future tax liabilities and expense. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as local country tax purposes in the jurisdictions where we operate, from time to time we take positions under provisions of applicable tax law that are subject to varying interpretations. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the applicable taxing authorities, including, in the U.S., the Internal Revenue Service. If our tax positions are successfully challenged, our future tax liabilities and expense could significantly increase. While we believe that our tax positions are proper based on applicable law and we believe that it is more likely than not that we would prevail with respect to challenges to these positions, we can make no assurances that we would prevail if our positions are challenged or that business economics would justify the mounting of a legal defense against such challenges. If our tax positions are successfully challenged by the U.S. or non-U.S. taxing authorities, it could increase our future tax liabilities and expense and have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may have exposure to additional income tax liabilities or additional costs if the U.S. government changes certain U.S. tax rules or other laws applicable to U.S. corporations doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We are a U.S. corporation that conducts business both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. As part of the ongoing discussions regarding the federal budget and the federal debt ceiling, various proposals have been made that may negatively impact U.S. corporations doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including proposals for comprehensive tax reform. While the scope of future changes remains unclear, proposed changes might include 16 Table of Contents limiting the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct certain expenses attributable to offshore earnings, modifying the foreign tax credit rules and taxing currently certain transfers of intangible assets offshore or imposing other economic disincentives to doing business outside of the U.S. The enactment of some or all of these proposals could increase the Company’s effective tax rate or otherwise adversely affect our profitability. Future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets would reduce our future earnings. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $32.1 million. We must perform periodic assessments to determine whether some portion, or all, of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets are impaired. Future impairment testing could result in a determination that our goodwill, other intangible assets or our long-lived assets have been impaired. Future adverse changes in the business environment or in our ability to perform audits successfully and compete effectively in our markets or the discontinuation of our use of certain of our intangible or other long-lived assets could result in impairment which could materially adversely impact future earnings. Claims under our self-insurance program may differ from our estimates, which could materially impact our results of operations. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for healthcare benefits for our employees. We estimate the liabilities associated with the risks that we retain by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change of control that shareholders may favor. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of PRGX that is not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive attractive offers for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified Board of Directors; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; • the ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community, in making decisions; and • the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a “poison pill” shareholders’ rights plan that could trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage bids for our shares of common stock at a premium and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2012, our stock traded as high as $8.85 per share and as low as $5.29 per share. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • future announcements concerning us, key clients or competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results and liquidity; 17 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • developments with respect to technology or litigation; • changes in applicable laws and regulations; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to our company; • acquisitions and financings; and • sales and purchases of our stock by insiders. Fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. Finally, general economic conditions and stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 