Item 1A. Risk Factors: Our quarterly and annual operating results are volatile and difficult to predict and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect net sales and profitability from period-to-period, including: • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; • the volatility of the optical device market; • competitive pressures on selling prices; • the mix of product sales, as our margins vary across product lines; • the timing and cancellation of customer orders; • the effect of the timing of sales by our resellers may have on our reported results as a result of our sell-through revenue recognition policies; • our ability to maintain and expand our distributor relationships; • our ability to design and manufacture products to meet customers’ and distributors’ specifications and expectations; • our ability to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • the introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; • the level of orders received that can be shipped in a quarter; • delays in shipments from our fabrication plants to assembly houses; • the availability of foundry capacity, raw materials and assembly and test capacity; • our ability to manufacture and have products manufactured for us, the correct mix to respond to orders on hand and new orders received in the future; • fluctuations in yields; • changes in product mix; • the level of future product returns; • the timing of investments in research and development, including tooling expenses associated with product development, process improvements and production; 7 Table of Contents • costs associated with increased regulation of corporate governance and disclosure and risks of non-compliance with such regulation; and • the overall economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Due to the absence of substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expectations of future revenues and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short-term. For example, we have a minimum purchase arrangement with two of our suppliers based on requirements forecasted in advance. Our future revenues are difficult to predict and at times in the past we have failed to achieve revenue expectations. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. If revenue levels are below expectations for any reason, operating results are likely to be unfavorably affected. We may also take steps to adjust our strategic product families and change our cost structure, which may result in our incurring additional restructuring, reorganization and other charges. Based on forecasts, we may increase our operating expenses for personnel and new product development and for inventory in anticipation of increasing sales levels; therefore, operating results would be worsened if increased sales are not achieved. Our business depends on market demand for products using analog semiconductors. A less robust semiconductor market could negatively impact our net sales, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could substantially negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may need to obtain a significant amount of additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents and investments on hand, the cash we expect to generate from operations and borrowings under our bank line of credit and unsecured promissory note facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital spending requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to fund our activities during and/or beyond that time. We could raise these funds by selling more stock to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly or to obtain funds through other arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. It is possible that our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. The amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: • whether we are able to reduce our recent negative cash flows; • the market acceptance of our products; • volume price discounts; • the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; • our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans and product and technology roadmaps; • our competitors’ response to our products; • our relationships with suppliers and customers; 8 Table of Contents • capital expenditures for equipment to meet customer demand for our products; • technological advances, and • the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace. In addition, we may require additional capital to accommodate planned growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. Our management has identified certain “material weaknesses” in the design and operation of our internal controls, which, if not adequately addressed, could result in accounting errors, call into question the accuracy of our financial results. For the year ended January 1, 2005, our management informed the Audit Committee that they identified “material weaknesses,” as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), in the design and operation of our internal controls. These weaknesses related to entity-level control activities, revenue accounting and controls related to the financial closing process. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 30, 2006, we were not an accelerated filer, and therefore we are not required to make the annual report on internal control over financial reporting required by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K and our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to issue a separate attestation on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting under Item 308(b). During fiscal year 2006, our management continued efforts to improve our internal controls over financial reporting, in particular to remediate the material weaknesses reported as of January 1, 2005. Our management believes that these efforts have or are reasonably likely to have, a material improvement on the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and to remediate the material weaknesses. However, as we were not an accelerated filer, and therefore not subject to the requirements of Item 308(a) and Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we have fully remediated the material weaknesses reported as of January 1, 2005 or that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully in a volatile market requires effective management systems and a system of financial processes and controls. We have identified a need to further evaluate and improve our sell-through accounting systems and procedures as well as our inventory valuation estimation procedures and tools. In addition, we have begun the process of implementing a new enterprise requirements planning system, which is expected to be completed in 2008. During the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we have continued to experience some delays and difficulties due to reliance on manual reconciliations and analyses. If we are unable to maintain an adequate level of processes and controls and improve our systems and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis and our business and stock price would be adversely affected. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to efficiently manage our inventory. Due to the absence of substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. As a consequence of inaccuracies inherent in forecasting, inventory imbalances periodically occur that result in surplus amounts of some of our products and shortages of others. Such shortages can adversely affect customer relations and surpluses can result in larger-than-desired inventory levels, which can adversely affect our financial position. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced an abrupt reduction in customer demand and internal forecast for sales of our products resulting in inventory write-down of $3.5 million and additional charges of $1.4 million related to provision for purchase commitments on excess inventories. 9 Table of Contents We are not currently listed on a national exchange or market, and can offer no assurance that we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to timely file our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2005 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended April 2, 2005, we were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market effective June 23, 2005, and our common stock is not currently listed on any national stock exchange or market. In order to be eligible for re-listing on the Nasdaq Global Market we must meet Nasdaq’s initial listing criteria. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these criteria or that our common stock will ever be relisted on the Nasdaq or listed on any other national stock exchange or market. Our common stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets, LLC electronic trading system for over-the-counter securities, which has not historically provided investors with the level of liquidity found in other markets and exchanges. We may face unforeseen complications from the transfer our manufacturing processes to Silan in China and Episil Technologies in Taiwan. We have transferred our manufacturing processes to foundries operated by Silan in China and Episil in Taiwan in conjunction with the closure of the Milpitas, California wafer fabrication facility. The transfer has been a complicated and time-consuming process that has been met with significant unforeseen complications that delayed the integration transfer and required additional allocation of our resources. There can be no guarantees that additional unforeseen integration issues will not arise in the future related to the integration that could cause additional delays which could materially adversely affect our ability to timely produce our products for distribution. In addition, the parties may be unable to achieve all or any of the expected benefits of the relationship within the anticipated time-frames. The anticipated synergies between Sipex and Silan or Episil may not be as significant as originally expected. The market for our products in China may not grow as rapidly or as large as both parties currently anticipate. The manufacturing processes and wafer testing for certain products may not be qualified by Sipex following the transfer from Sipex to Silan or Episil or the qualification process may take significantly longer than currently expected. This could result in additional operating costs, loss of customers, and business disruption. We may experience difficulties in developing and introducing new or enhanced products necessitated by technological advances. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to anticipate changes in market demand and evolving technologies. To remain competitive, we must enhance our current products and develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological advancements and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. Our products may be rendered obsolete if we fail to anticipate or react to change, and, as a result, our revenues and cash flow may be negatively impacted. Our success depends on our ability to develop new semiconductor devices for existing and new markets, to introduce these products in a timely manner and to have these products selected for design into new products of our customers. The development of these new devices is highly complex and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development of new products. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including: • accurate new product definition; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • availability of foundry capacity; • achievement of manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. Our success also depends upon our ability to accurately specify and certify the conformance of our products to applicable standards and to develop our products in accordance with customer requirements. We may not be able to adjust to changing market conditions as quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully. We may not be able to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner or in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that these products will achieve market acceptance. 10 Table of Contents The introduction of our new products may be delayed in order to test for and resolve design flaws. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. They may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when new products are first introduced or when new versions are released. We recently delayed the introduction of some of our new products in order to perform further tests on the products and to identify and resolve any of these errors. We may further delay the release of our new product lines. Such delays could have an adverse effect on our market reputation and ability to generate sales. We depend on distributors who sell directly to OEMs and the loss of one or more of our significant distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 approximately 77%, 83%, and 83%, respectively, of our net sales were from shipments of our products to distributors who sell directly to OEMs. Our agreements with distributors contain limited provisions for return of our products, including stock rotations whereby distributors may return a percentage of their purchases from us based upon a percentage of their most recent three months of shipments. In addition, in certain circumstances upon termination of the distributor relationship, distributors may return some portion of their prior purchases. The loss of business from any of our significant distributors or the delay of significant orders from any of them, even if only temporary, could significantly reduce our income, delay recognition of revenue and impact our ability to accurately predict cash flow. We may not successfully expand our sales and distribution channels. An integral part of our strategy is to expand our sales and distribution channels, particularly internationally. We are increasing resources dedicated to developing and expanding these channels but we may not be successful in doing so. If we are successful in increasing our sales through indirect sales channels, we expect that those sales will be at lower per unit prices than sales through direct channels, and revenues we receive for each sale will be less than if we had sold the same product to the customer directly. Selling through indirect channels may also limit our contact with our customers. As a result, our ability to accurately forecast sales, evaluate customer satisfaction and recognize emerging customer requirements may be hindered. Even if we successfully expand our distribution channels, any new distributors may not have the technical expertise required to market and support our products successfully. If distributors do not provide adequate levels of services and technical support, our customers could become dissatisfied, we could be required to devote additional resources for customer support and our brand name and reputation could be negatively impacted. Our strategy of marketing products directly to our customers and indirectly through distributors may result in distribution channel conflicts. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from Future, a related party, and our revenues would likely decline significantly if Future elected not to make, cancel, reduce or defer purchases of our products. Future is a related party and has historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Future is our largest distributor worldwide and accounted for 43%, 44% and 39% of total net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our products to Future will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of Future as a distributor, or a significant reduction in orders from Future would materially and adversely affect our operating results, our business, our financial condition and our stock price. We have a distributor agreement with Future that provides for Future to act as our sole distributor for certain products within North America and Europe. If Future were to cease distributing these products, we could experience a reduction in sales as we locate replacement distributors for these products. Sales to Future are made under an agreement that provides protection against price reduction for their inventory of our products. As such, we could be exposed to significant liability if the inventory value of the products held by Future declined dramatically. Our distributor agreement with Future does not contain minimum purchase commitments. As a result, Future could cease purchasing our products with short notice to us. In addition, Future may defer or cancel orders without penalty, which would likely cause our revenues, our business, our financial condition and our stock price to decline. 11 Table of Contents Affiliates of Future, our largest distributor, beneficially own a significant percentage of our common stock, which will allow them to significantly influence matters requiring stockholders’ approval and could discourage potential acquisition of our Company. As of December 30, 2006, the affiliates of Future held approximately 8.6 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 47%, of our outstanding common stock and held 50% of our outstanding 5.5% Redeemable Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. We have also entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Rodfre pursuant to which we may issue to Rodfre up to $10.0 million of 9% unsecured junior notes. In addition, two members of our board of directors, Dan Casey and Pierre Guilbault, are representatives of Future. Due to its ownership of a significant percentage of our common stock and our convertible debt, Future will be able to exert significant influence over, and effectively control, actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors, many types of change of control transactions and amendments to our charter documents. The significant ownership percentage of Future could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Sipex or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from obtaining control of Sipex. Conversely, by virtue of Future’s percentage ownership of our stock and debt, Future could facilitate a takeover transaction that our board of directors did not approve. Occasionally, we enter into agreements that expose us to potential damages that exceed the value of the agreement. We have given certain customers increased indemnification for product deficiencies that is in excess of the standard limited warranty indemnification and could possibly result in greater costs, in excess of the original contract value. In an attempt to limit this liability, we have also increased our errors and omission insurance policy to partially offset these potential additional costs; however, our insurance coverage could be insufficient to prevent us from suffering material losses if the indemnification amounts are large enough. We may face significant risks related to our international operations. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from international sales, including to Asia, which are subject to certain risks, including: • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • changes in tariffs; • exchange rates and other barriers; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; • the seasonality of sales; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our international sales (sales to customers outside the United States) in the year ended December 30, 2006 were $62.7 million, or 80% of total net sales and $58.0 million and $60.3 million for the years ended 2005 and 2004, respectively, and 80% of total net sales for both years of 2005 and 2004. There can be no assurance that economic and geopolitical troubles in any area of the world will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our inability to meet any increase in demand could reduce our market share. Demand shifts in the semiconductor industry are rapid and difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond quickly enough to an increase in demand, if any. Our ability to increase sales of our products depends, in part, upon our ability to optimize the use of our manufacturing and suppliers’ manufacturing capacities in a timely manner and, if necessary, expand our manufacturing and suppliers’ manufacturing capacities. If we are unable to respond to rapid increases in demand, if any, for our products on a timely basis or to manage any corresponding expansion of our manufacturing capacity effectively, our customers could increase their purchases from our competitors, which would reduce our market share. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we will experience fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and lost market share. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, and which are subject to both rapid technological change and continued price erosion. Our competitors include many large domestic and foreign companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and management resources than we have. Loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which would affect our operating results and financial condition. To remain competitive, we continue to evaluate our manufacturing operations, looking for additional cost savings and technological improvements. If we are not able to successfully implement new process technologies and to achieve volume production of new products at acceptable yields, our operating results and financial condition may be affected. In addition, if competitors in Asia reduce prices on commodity products, it would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in that region. Our future competitive performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • accurately identify emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; • develop and maintain competitive products; • enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • bring products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; • respond effectively to new technological changes or new product announcements by others; • increase device performance and improve manufacturing yields; • adapt products and processes to technological changes; and • adopt or set emerging industry standards. There can be no assurance that our design, development and introduction schedules for new products or enhancements to our existing and future products will be met. In addition, there can be no assurance that these products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable. The implementation of a new management information system may disrupt our business. We have begun the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning and financial accounting and planning system, and integrating this new system with our customer relationship management system and our product management system. Implementation of the new management information system, including the integration with other systems, is a very complex and time consuming process that requires significant financial resources and personnel time, as well as unifying operating policies and procedures to ensure that the total system operates efficiently and effectively. Further delays or any errors in the implementation could result in additional costs and cause disruptions to our business, which could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, comply with our periodic reporting requirements on a timely basis and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents A failure of our information systems would adversely impact our ability to process orders for and manufacture products. We operate a multinational business enterprise with manufacturing, administration and sales groups located in Asia, Europe and North America. These disparate groups are connected by a virtual private network-based enterprise resource planning system, where daily manufacturing operations and order entry functions rely on maintaining a reliable network among locations. Any failure of our computer network or our enterprise resource planning system would impede our ability to schedule orders, monitor production work in process and ship and bill our finished goods to our customers. We have only limited protection for our proprietary technology. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened patent litigation that we consider material, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert claims against us with respect to existing or future products or technologies and we have been subject to such claims in the past. To determine the validity of any third party claims, such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our management personnel from productive tasks. In the event of an adverse ruling in such litigation, we may be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, with respect to disputed third party technology. In the event of a successful claim against us and our failure to develop or license a substitute technology at a reasonable cost, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents. We may be subject to, or may initiate, interference proceedings in the U.S. patent office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. Our future success depends on retaining our key personnel and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified employees. Our success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, such as experienced analog circuit designers. The competition for these employees is intense. Our employee’s are employed at-will, which means that they can terminate their employment at any time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our design engineers, executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our design engineers, executive officers or other key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for these personnel or to otherwise attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could seriously impede our success. Product defects or compatibility problems with our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our technology, cause us to replace defective or incompatible products at a substantial cost and result in potentially costly litigation. A number of factors, including design flaws, materials failures, manufacturing problems, and misapplication of our products may cause our products to contain undetected errors, defects or compatibility problems. Defects or compatibility problems with our products may: • cause delays in product introductions and shipments; • result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; 14 Table of Contents • result in increased product returns and cause us to incur costs due to unusable inventory or replacement of defective or incompatible products; or • require design modifications. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. This could result in the loss of existing customers and impair our ability to attract new customers in the future. In addition, we may discover defects or failures in our products after they are installed by customers. In such cases, we may incur significant costs and devote substantial management resources to correcting these problems. Our customers may also sue us for, or otherwise seek to recover from us, any losses resulting from alleged defects or errors in our products. The manufacturing processes for our products are very complex, which may result in manufacturing difficulties. The manufacturing processes for our products are highly complex and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Process changes can result in interruptions in production or significantly reduced yields causing product introduction or delivery delays. In addition, yields can be adversely affected by minute impurities in the environment or other problems that occur in the complex manufacturing process. Many of these problems are difficult to diagnose and are time-consuming or expensive to remedy. From time to time we have experienced unfavorable yield variances. In particular, new process technologies or new products can be subject to especially wide variations in manufacturing yields and efficiency. There can be no assurance that our foundries or the foundries of our suppliers will not experience unfavorable yield variances or other manufacturing problems that result in delayed product introduction or delivery delays. This risk is particularly significant in the near term as we transfer our manufacturing processes to Silan and Episil. We increasingly rely on outside foundries to supply certain of our wafers and those foundries may not produce at acceptable levels. Beginning in 2006, we began to increasingly rely on outside foundries to supply certain of our fully processed semiconductor wafers. There can be no assurance that we will not be totally dependent on outside foundries. This reliance on outside foundries presents the following potential risks: • lack of adequate wafer supply; • limited control over delivery schedules; • unavailability of or delays in obtaining access to key process technologies; and • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. Additionally, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity at any of these foundries with the exception of two of our foundries for whom we provide minimum purchase commitments in accordance with our supply agreements. The ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity, and the foundry’s allocation of its available capacity among multiple customers. There can be no assurance that our third party foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. We have experienced decreased allocations of wafer supplies from our suppliers in the past, which reduced our capacity to ship products, and, thus, recognize revenues. Furthermore, any sudden reduction or elimination of any primary source or sources of fully processed wafers could result in a material delay in the shipment of our products. If any other delays or shortages occur in the future, our business and operating results will be negatively impacted. Our ability to meet current demand or any increase in demand for our products may be limited by our ability to test our semiconductor wafers. As part of our manufacturing process, we must test all of our semiconductor wafers using certain “probe testing” equipment. As such, our ability to meet current demand or any increase in demand for our products depends, in part, on our ability to purchase and install sufficient testing equipment. Obtaining and installing this equipment is a time and capital intensive process and depends on our ability to accurately predict future sales. In the 15 Table of Contents first quarter of 2006, due to a lack of sufficient “probe testing” equipment, we were unable to test an adequate number of wafers, incurred delays in shipping products and were unable to meet the demand for our products. If we are unable to estimate future sales correctly or we are unable to obtain the necessary testing equipment on a timely basis, we will continue to be unable to meet the current demand or any increased demand for our products. The facilities of certain of our significant customers and third party wafer suppliers are located in areas susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. The facilities of certain of our significant customers and third-party wafer suppliers are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Damage caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters may result in shortages in water or electricity or transportation, which could limit the production capacity of our wafer facility or the ability of certain of our subcontractors to provide needed products. Any reduction in production capacity or the ability to obtain fully processed semiconductor wafers could cause delays or shortages in our product supply, which would negatively impact our business. If the facilities of our customers or our third party wafer suppliers are damaged by future earthquakes or other natural disasters, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We rely on outside suppliers to assemble, test and ship product to our customers. We rely on outside assembly houses to assemble, test and ship our product to end customers. There can be no assurance that our third party suppliers will allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet our requirements. Any sudden reduction or elimination of a primary source could result in material delay in the shipment of our product and could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. In addition, we may transition the testing of our products to new assembly houses. If the transition does not proceed smoothly, this could also result in delays in the shipment of our products. Because we rely on outside assembly house to assemble, test and ship our products, we have limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs, and we have in the past experienced yield issues and delays. We could experience delays or yield issues in the future due to the transfer of products from development to production, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. In addition, if defects in our products are undetected, we may experience higher warranty expenses than anticipated, which could negatively impact our reputation, business and operating results. We must comply with significant environmental regulations, employment tax regulations, employment practices and other governmental regulations which are difficult and expensive. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local governmental regulations related to employment taxes, employment practices and other governmental regulations and regulations regarding the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes or residing in our products. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could subject us to significant future liabilities. Any failure to conform to employment tax regulations, employment practices regulations and other governmental regulations, could result in remediation or other significant liabilities. We substantially increased our outstanding indebtedness with the issuance of 5.5% Redeemable Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026, and we may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. In May 2006 we issued notes in the aggregate principal amount of $30.0 million in a private placement to Future and certain institutional investors. As of December 30, 2006, $30.2 million with interest remained outstanding under the notes. The notes accrue interest at a rate of 5.5% per annum, subject to adjustment, with accrued interest payable on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The interest rate is subject to increase upon failure to comply with certain covenants, such as our failure to be listed on a national exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Global Market or our failure to have declared effective a registration statement registering the notes, warrants and underlying shares of our common stock. As a result of our failure to comply with 16 Table of Contents these conditions we are effectively obligated to pay up to an additional 2.7% of interest on the notes, and our current effective interest rate is 8.2% per annum. By issuing the notes we increased our indebtedness substantially. In addition, the holders of the notes have imposed certain restrictive covenants, including limits on our future indebtedness and limits on our ability to incur future liens and make certain restricted payments. The holders of the notes also have the option of causing us to repurchase the notes for cash at a price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest on each of May 15, 2011, May 15, 2016, or May 15, 2021 or upon a change of control (as defined in the notes). An event of default would occur under the notes for a number of reasons, including our failure to pay when due any principal, interest or late charges on the notes, certain defaults on our indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and our breach or failure to perform certain representations and obligations under the notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our obligations under the notes may become due and payable in accordance with the terms thereof. If the investors in our 5.5% Redeemable Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 convert their notes or exercise their warrants, it will have a dilutive effect upon our stockholders. In May 2006 we issued notes and warrants to Future and certain institutional investors. Pursuant to the terms of these notes, the holders of such notes may convert the notes into shares of common stock at any time prior to their maturity at a conversion price of $5.36 per share, subject to certain adjustments, such as for stock splits and certain other situations specified in the notes. Subject to certain conditions, we can automatically convert all of the outstanding notes into common stock if the average price of our common stock exceeds 150% of the then effective conversion price for any 20 trading days during any 30-day period. The warrants are exercisable at any time on or before May 18, 2011 at an exercise price of $6.432 per share, subject to certain adjustments similar to the provisions set forth in the notes. If the note holders convert the notes or exercise the warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock and such issuances will be dilutive to our stockholders. If the note holders were to convert the remaining unconverted notes in full at the current conversion price, we would be obligated to issue an additional 5.6 million shares of common stock. If such holders were to exercise the remaining warrants in full at the current exercise price, we would be obligated to issue 419,776 shares of common stock, for an aggregate of 6.0 million shares of our common stock. These 6.0 million shares would represent approximately 25% of the then outstanding shares of common stock (assuming such conversion and exercise as of December 30, 2006). In addition, if such holders or our other stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market during a short period of time, our stock price may decline significantly. Our stock price has been volatile and could continue to remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the semiconductor manufacturing and electronic markets, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or other events or factors. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent months. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: Not Applicable 17 Table of Contents 