ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and may not be able to improve our performance to achieve profitability. We reported a net loss from continuing operations of $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and net losses of $21.1 million, $207.7 million, $71.5 million, and $160.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. There is no guarantee that our ongoing cost reduction efforts or attempts to increase our revenues will be successful. If we are not able to increase revenues and/or further reduce costs, we may not be able to operate profitability in the future or generate sufficient cash to fund our operations and pay our indebtedness. We believe that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to decline. Therefore, we must continue to diligently manage our costs and successfully grow other business lines in order to stabilize and increase our revenues and improve our profitability. As our clients improve their systems and processes, fewer transactional errors occur. In addition, many of our clients have internal staffs that audit the same transactions before we do. As the skills, experience and resources of our clients’ internal recovery audit staffs improve, they will identify more overpayments themselves and reduce our audit recovery opportunities. Based on these and other factors, we currently believe that our core accounts payable recovery audit business will continue to experience revenue declines over the long-term. In order to stabilize and increase our revenues and return to profitability, we must continue our cost reduction efforts (which include emphasizing larger accounts that provide a greater return on the resources required for the account) and grow our other lines of business, such as our Medicare audit work. These other lines of business are still in the early stages of development, and there can be no guarantee that they will ultimately succeed. We depend on our largest clients for significant revenues, so losing a major client could adversely affect our revenues. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our five largest clients accounted for approximately 32.6%, 27.3% and 25.9% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively. If we lose any of our major clients, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of revenue unless we acquire new business to replace such clients. Client and vendor bankruptcies and financial difficulties could reduce our earnings. Our clients generally operate in intensely competitive environments and, accordingly, bankruptcy filings by our clients are not uncommon. Bankruptcy filings by our large clients or the significant vendors who supply them or unexpectedly large vendor claim chargebacks lodged against one or more of our larger clients, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, our inability to collect our accounts receivable due to the financial difficulties of one or more of our large clients could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a client files for bankruptcy, we could be subject to an action to recover certain payments received in the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing as “preference payments.” If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we would be required to make unbudgeted cash payments which could strain our financial liquidity and our earnings would be reduced. For example, on April 1, 2003, Fleming Companies, one of the Company’s larger U.S. Accounts Payable Services clients at the time filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. During the quarter ended March 31, 2003, the Company received approximately $5.6 million in payments on account from Fleming. On January 24, 2005, the Company received a demand from the Fleming Post Confirmation Trust (“PCT”), a trust which was created pursuant to Fleming’s Chapter 11 reorganization plan to represent the client, for preference payments received by the Company. The demand stated that the PCT’s calculation of the preferential payments was approximately $2.9 million. The Company disputed the claim. Later in 2005, the PCT filed suit against the Company seeking to recover approximately $5.6 million in payments that were made to the Company by Fleming during the 90 days preceding Fleming’s bankruptcy filing, and that are alleged to be avoidable either as preferences or fraudulent transfers under the Bankruptcy Code. The Company believes that it has valid defenses to certain of the 9 Table of Contents PCT’s claims in the proceeding. In December 2005, the PCT offered to settle the case for $2 million. The Company countered with an offer to waive its bankruptcy claim and to pay the PCT $250,000. The PCT rejected the Company’s settlement offer, and although the parties have agreed to settlement mediation, the litigation is ongoing. Our strategic business initiatives may not be successful. Our objective is to build on our position as the leading worldwide provider of recovery audit services. Our strategic plan to achieve these objectives focuses on a series of initiatives designed to maintain our dedicated focus on clients and rekindle our growth. We have implemented a number of strategic business initiatives that are designed to stabilize revenues and further manage costs. These initiatives are ongoing and the results of the strategy and implementation will not be known until some time in the future. Each of the initiatives requires sustained management focus, organization and coordination over time, as well as success in building relationships with third parties. If we are unable to implement our strategy successfully, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, successful implementation of our strategy may require material increases in costs and expenses. We have incurred significant costs in establishing the necessary resources to provide services for Medicare audit recovery work and our future Medicare audit revenues will largely depend on our participation in the proposed national expansion of the Medicare recovery program. As part of a pilot program to use recovery auditing to recover overpayments on behalf of taxpayers, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), the federal agency that administers the Medicare program, awarded us a three-year contract, effective March 28, 2005, to provide recovery audit services in connection with the State of California’s Medicare spending. We have expended substantial resources in connection with preparing for and performing the CMS audit services. While our participation under the demonstration project has made an important contribution to our revenues, the demonstration project contract expires on March 27, 2008 and we continue to incur significant costs in anticipation of our possible participation in the national expansion of the Medicare recovery audit program by CMS. Future revenues from Medicare recovery auditing will be largely dependent on our participation in the national expansion of the recovery audit program and the terms of any new contracts governing the services that we provide as a part of any such participation. In addition, as a result of the complex regulations governing Medicare payments and recoupments, including a multi-layered scheme for provider appeals of overpayment determinations, and the complexity of Medicare data, systems and processes, generally, it is more difficult and takes longer to achieve recoveries than in other areas of our business. Recovery auditing of Medicare spending is subject to a number of pressures and uncertainties that could impact our future opportunities and revenues from this business. As contrasted with recovery auditing for our other retail/wholesale and commercial clients, recovery auditing of Medicare spending is a legislatively mandated program subject to, among other things, the efforts of healthcare providers and provider associations, including political pressures, to end or severely limit the CMS recovery audit program. These efforts and political pressures are expected to be ongoing throughout the life of the CMS recovery audit program and during 2007 resulted in a number of significant developments relating to the Medicare recovery audit program. In October 2007, a temporary “pause” was initiated in our review under the recovery audit demonstration project of certain payments made to rehabilitation hospitals. Further, on November 8, 2007, legislation was introduced in Congress proposing a one year halt to CMS’s recovery audit program and calling for an assessment of the program by the U.S. Government Accountability Office. Management is unable to fully assess the prospects for the success of the newly proposed legislation. However, as previously noted, the efforts by healthcare providers and provider associations to limit or end the program are expected to be ongoing. If CMS’s recovery audit program, including the planned national expansion of the program, is significantly limited or delayed, subjected to burdensome or commercially challenging requirements, terms and/or conditions, or altogether terminated, our future revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to significantly grow our Medicare recovery audit services is largely dependent on the viability and continued success of, and our participation in, the planned expansion of recovery auditing of Medicare spending to all 50 states. Given the expected continuation of the long-term trend of declining revenues from our core accounts payable recovery audit business, stabilization and growth of our revenues and improvement of our profitability are largely dependent on our ability to grow our new services lines, including our Medicare recovery audit services. We have expended substantial resources, beginning in 2005, in preparing for and performing the audit of Medicare spending under the California demonstration project, including capital expenditures and employee compensation costs related to this opportunity, for which we were awarded a contract in 2005. The demonstration project ends March 27, 2008. In late 2006, legislation was enacted that mandated that recovery audit of Medicare be extended beyond the March 2008 end of the demonstration project and that CMS enter into additional contracts with recovery audit contractors to expand recovery auditing of Medicare spending to all 50 states by January 1, 2010. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the Medicare recovery audit program, it is difficult to assess the overall impact of the proposed national rollout of recovery auditing of Medicare spending on the Company’s business. Nevertheless, management believes that should it participate in the national rollout of Medicare auditing, the Company will have the opportunity to expand its Medicare audit recovery business. However, the expansion of the Company’s Medicare recovery audit services is subject to numerous risks and variables, including the timing, terms and rollout schedule of the national expansion by CMS and changes in the political, legislative and regulatory environment. For example, on November 7, 2007, CMS significantly modified the request for proposal (“RFP”) issued in connection with the national rollout. The RFP was revised to, among other things, introduce provisions which limit the scope of the Medicare payments to be reviewed by participating recovery audit contractors to those made on or after October 1, 2007. The RFP also contains other terms that are significantly different from the terms applicable to the Medicare recovery audit demonstration project, including a provision which requires participating recovery audit contractors to repay to CMS the contingency fee associated with any claim that is subsequently overturned at any level of appeal. We can provide no assurance that the national expansion of recovery auditing of Medicare spending will occur in any given manner or timeframe, including the manner and timeframes set forth in the legislation enacted in 2006 or that we will participate in any such expansion. If we do not participate in the national rollout of Medicare recovery auditing, if the planned rollout is modified further by CMS, significantly delayed or altogether terminated, or if our Medicare recovery audit services are not expanded, it could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to protect and maintain the competitive advantage of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to protect our proprietary software, audit techniques and methodologies, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Although we presently hold U.S. and foreign registered trademarks and U.S. registered copyrights on certain of our proprietary technology, we may be unable to obtain similar protection on our other intellectual property. In addition, our foreign registered trademarks may not receive the same enforcement protection as our U.S. registered trademarks. Additionally, we generally enter into nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients. We also limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation or unauthorized dissemination of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Even though we take care to protect our own intellectual property, there is no guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Moreover, although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we are also subject to the risk that someone else will assert a claim against us in the future for violating their intellectual property rights. Our failure to retain the services of key members of management and highly skilled personnel could adversely impact our continued success. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our executive officers and key employees. As such, we have entered into employment agreements with key members of management. While these employment agreements limit the ability of key employees to directly compete with us in the future, nothing prevents them from leaving our company. 11 Table of Contents In addition, it is especially challenging to attract and retain highly qualified skilled auditors and other professionals in an industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense. Accordingly, our future performance also depends, in part, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, manage our workforce, and retain highly qualified personnel. We rely on international operations for a significant portion of our revenues. Approximately 38.3% of our revenues from continuing operations were generated from international operations in 2007. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • political and economic instability in the international markets we serve; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly weaknesses in the British pound, the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, and the Brazilian real and other currencies of countries in which we transact business, which could result in currency translations that materially reduce our revenues and earnings; • costs associated with adapting our services to our foreign clients’ needs; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • expenses and legal restrictions associated with transferring earnings from our foreign subsidiaries to us; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; • business interruptions due to widespread disease, potential terrorist activities, or other catastrophes; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property rights; and • longer accounts receivable cycles. Because we expect a significant portion of our revenues to continue to come from international operations, the occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for providing disbursement audit services to commercial clients is declining. The service model for commercial clients is generally different from that for retailers. The substantial majority of our domestic commercial Accounts Payable Services clients are served using a disbursement audit service model which entails obtaining limited data from the client and an audit focus on a select few recovery categories. Services to these types of clients to date have tended to be either periodic (typically, every two to three years) or rotational in nature with different divisions of a given client often audited in pre-arranged annual sequences. Accordingly, revenues derived from a given commercial client may change markedly from year to year. Additionally, the duration of a disbursement audit is often measured in weeks or months, as opposed to years, and the number of auditors assigned per client is usually between one and five. Because accounts payable software increasingly used by many large companies significantly reduces the number of disbursement errors, our revenues from commercial audits have declined in recent years and are expected to continue to do so. Similar to the decline in our core accounts payable recovery audit business, we will need to continue to successfully implement our cost savings efforts and grow our other lines of business in order to stabilize and increase our revenues to replace declining revenues from this business. Our accounts payable recovery audit services business is subject to price pressure. The accounts payable recovery audit business is highly competitive, with numerous other recovery audit firms and other providers of recovery audit services, and with many clients having developed their own internal audit capabilities. As a result of competition among the providers of recovery audit services and the availability of certain audit services from clients’ internal audit departments, our accounts payable recovery audit services business is subject to intense price pressure. Such price pressure could cause our profit margins to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Generally our client contracts contain provisions under which the client may terminate the agreement prior to the completion of the agreement. Many of our client contracts contain provisions that would permit the client to terminate the contract without cause prior to the completion of the term of the agreement by providing us with relatively short prior written notice of the termination. As a result, the existence of contractual relationships with our clients is not an assurance that we will continue to provide services for our clients through the entire terms of their respective agreements. If clients representing a significant portion of our revenues terminated their agreements unexpectedly, we may not, in the short-term, be able to replace the revenues and earnings from such contracts and this would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, client contract terminations could also harm our reputation within the industry which could negatively impact our ability to obtain new clients. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental privacy laws and regulations could substantially impact our business, operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations. Changes in privacy laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations could have a substantial effect on our operating methods and costs. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in the termination or loss of contracts, the imposition of contractual damages, civil sanctions, or in certain circumstances, criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Determining compliance with such regulations is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. There can be no assurance that we are or have been in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with new laws or regulations. The ownership change that occurred as a result of our 2006 exchange offer limits our ability to use our net operating losses. We have substantial tax loss and credit carry-forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On March 17, 2006, as a result of the closing of its exchange offer, the Company experienced an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). This ownership change resulted in an annual IRC Section 382 limitation that limits the use of certain tax attribute carry-forwards. Of the $33.8 million of U.S. federal net loss carry-forwards available to the Company, $24.7 million of the loss carry-forwards are subject to an annual usage limitation of $1.4 million. We believe that such limitations and the loss of these carry-forwards may significantly increase our projected future tax liability. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and if successful, these challenges could increase our future tax liabilities and expense. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as local country tax purposes in the jurisdictions where we operate, from time to time we take positions under provisions of applicable tax law that are subject to varying interpretations. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the applicable taxing authorities, including, in the U.S., the Internal Revenue Service. If our tax positions are successfully challenged, our future tax liabilities and expense could significantly increase. For example, we have taken the position that we are entitled to interest deductions in respect of our previously outstanding senior convertible notes that were issued in our 2006 exchange offer. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, no deduction is allowed for interest paid or accrued with respect to convertible debt if it is substantially certain that the holders will voluntarily convert the debt into equity. The proper application of this provision in the case of our senior convertible notes is subject to varying interpretations, depending in part on the facts and circumstances existing on the exchange date, and there is no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service would not take the position that the interest expense is not deductible. In addition, we have claimed certain tax deductions in the United Kingdom relating to the amortization and impairment of goodwill. However, applicable tax law in the United Kingdom providing for these deductions is subject to varying interpretations. The tax deductions claimed by us are reflected in our deferred tax asset related to 13 Table of Contents foreign net operating losses. The deferred tax asset represented by these deductions is offset by a corresponding valuation allowance. While we believe that our tax positions are proper based on applicable law and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will prevail with respect to any challenges to these positions, we can make no assurances that we would prevail if our positions are challenged. If our tax positions are successfully challenged by the U.S. or non-U.S. taxing authorities, it could increase our future tax liabilities and expense and have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets would reduce our future earnings. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $166.0 million and an impairment charge of $4.4 million relating to our intangible trade name value. Adverse future changes in the business environment or in our ability to perform audits successfully and compete effectively in our market or the discontinuation of our use of certain of our intangible or other long-lived assets could result in additional impairment which could materially adversely impact future earnings. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $25.8 million. We must perform annual assessments to determine whether some portion, or all, of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-term assets are impaired. Future annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 142 could result in a determination that our goodwill or other intangible assets have been further impaired, and future annual impairment testing under SFAS No. 144 could result in a determination that our other long-lived assets have been impaired. Any future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets would reduce future earnings. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with other businesses offering recovery audit services, including the internal recovery audit departments of our clients. The recovery audit industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors for accounts payable recovery audit services tend to be privately owned. As a result, information available about our competitors is limited. For example, we do not have access to their financial statements, so we cannot be certain as to whether we can continue to compete successfully with our competitors. In recent years, revenues from our core accounts payable recovery audit business have declined, and are expected to continue to decline, due in part to our clients’ continuing development of their own internal recovery audit capabilities. In addition, the trend toward more effective internal recovery audit departments diminishes claims available for us to identify in our recovery audits and is likely to continue to negatively impact our future revenues. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Georgia law may inhibit a change of control that shareholders may favor. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive attractive offers for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified Board of Directors; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and • the ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community, in making decisions. Our articles of incorporation also permit the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we have in place a “poison pill” shareholders’ rights plan that could trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage bids for our shares of common stock at a premium and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents The terms of our credit facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and reduce our flexibility. Our current credit facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants, which limit our ability to take certain actions and require us to comply with specified financial ratios and other performance covenants. No assurance can be provided that we will not violate the covenants of our secured credit facility in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants in the future, our lenders could pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring the immediate repayment in full of all amounts outstanding, if any. Additionally, we cannot be certain that, if the lenders demanded immediate repayment of any amounts outstanding, we would be able to secure adequate or timely replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to make payments due on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Some or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations and we could be required to file for bankruptcy. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our credit agreements may limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Market System. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, our stock traded as high as $20.14 per share and as low as $7.90 per share. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • future announcements concerning us, key clients or competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results and liquidity; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • developments with respect to technology or litigation; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to our company; • acquisitions and financings; and • sales and purchases of blocks of stock by insiders. Fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. General stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 