ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our revenues and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by worldwide economic turmoil, credit tightening and associated declines in consumer spending. Worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn over the last two to three years, including slower economic activity, tightened credit markets, inflation and deflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for businesses, governments and consumers to accurately forecast and plan future activities. Although net sales of our FOG products increased $11.4 million, or 39%, from 2009 to 2010, driven largely by increased sales for commercial applications, such as surveying and optical stabilization, and a range of government and defense applications, including weapons stabilization, there can be no assurance that such an increase will continue in the future. Governments are experiencing significant declines in tax receipts, which may cause them to curtail spending significantly or reallocate funds away from defense programs. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the economy will remedy these problems. As a result of these and other factors, customers could slow or suspend spending on our products and services. We may also incur increased credit losses and need to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition. We cannot predict the timing, duration or ultimate impact of this downturn. We expect our business to continue to be adversely impacted by this downturn. 12 Table of Contents Net sales of our mobile communications products are largely generated by discretionary consumer spending, and demand for these products may demonstrate slower growth or decline as a result of continuing weak regional and global economic conditions. Consumer spending tends to decline during recessionary periods and may decline at other times. For example, although sales of our mobile satellite communications products have recently increased, sales of those products declined approximately 27% from 2008 to 2009. These recent increases in sales may not be sustained in future periods. Consumers may choose not to purchase our mobile communications products due to a perception that they are luxury items. As global and regional economic conditions change, including the general level of interest rates, fluctuating oil prices and demand for durable consumer products, demand for our products could be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if unseasonably cold weather, prolonged winter conditions, disasters or similar events occur. Our marine leisure business is highly seasonal and seasonality can also impact our commercial marine business. We historically have generated the majority of our marine leisure product revenues during the first and second quarters of each year, and these revenues typically decline in the third and fourth quarters of each year, compared to the first two quarters. Our marine leisure business is also significantly affected by the weather. Unseasonably cool weather, prolonged winter conditions, hurricanes, unusual amounts of rain, and natural and other disasters may decrease boating, which could reduce our revenues. Specifically, we may encounter a decrease in new airtime activations as well as an increase in the number of cancellations or temporary suspensions of our airtime service. We expect that we could derive an increasing portion of our revenues from commercial leases of mobile communications equipment, rather than sales, which could increase our credit and collection risk. We are actively seeking to increase revenues from the commercial markets for our mini-VSAT Broadband service, particularly shipping companies and other companies that deploy a fleet of vessels. In marketing this service, we offer leasing arrangements for the TracPhone antennas to both commercial and leisure customers. If commercial leases become increasingly popular with our customers, we could face increased risks of default under those leases. Defaults could increase our costs of collection (including costs of retrieving leased equipment) and reduce the amount we collect from customers, which could harm our results of operations. Our inventory levels could require an inventory write-down if our inventory reduction and rebalancing efforts are ineffective. During 2009, we recorded an additional $1.3 million in inventory charges in order to account for the risk of excess inventory due, in part, to weak consumer demand and during 2010, we wrote off approximately $0.6 million of fully reserved inventory. However, if our future inventory reduction and rebalancing efforts are unsuccessful or take an extended period of time, we may have to consider additional, more sizeable inventory reserves or write-downs to address potential excess and obsolete inventory, and our gross margins may fall below historical levels, which would adversely affect our financial results. Adverse economic conditions could result in financial difficulties or bankruptcy for any of our suppliers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The significant downturn in worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could present challenges to our suppliers, which could result in disruptions to our business, increase our costs, delay shipment of our products and impair our ability to generate and recognize revenue. To address their own business challenges, our suppliers may increase prices, reduce the availability of credit, require deposits or advance payments or take other actions that may impose a burden on us. 13 Table of Contents They may also reduce production capacity, slow or delay delivery of products, face challenges meeting our specifications or otherwise fail to meet our requirements. In some cases, our suppliers may face bankruptcy. We may be required to identify, qualify and engage new suppliers, which would require time and the attention of management. Any of these events could impair our ability to deliver our products to customers in a timely and cost-effective manner, cause us to breach our contractual commitments or result in the loss of customers. Shifts in our product sales mix toward our mobile communications products may reduce our overall gross margins. Our mobile communications products historically have had lower product gross margins than our guidance and stabilization products. During the first three quarters of 2008, sales of our guidance and stabilization products either declined or grew at a substantially lower rate than our overall sales growth. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we experienced a significant increase in sales of our guidance and stabilization products, primarily due to an increase in our FOG product sales. A shift in our product sales mix toward mobile communications products would likely cause lower gross margins in the future, especially if driven by reduced demand. We must generate a certain level of sales of the TracPhone V7, TracPhone V3 and our mini-VSAT Broadband service in order to improve our service gross margins. As a result of our continued build-out of the mini-VSAT Broadband network infrastructure, our cost of service sales includes certain fixed costs that do not vary with the volume of service sales. These fixed costs are increasing as we expand our network across the globe and we have an extremely limited ability to reduce these fixed costs in the short term. If sales of our TracPhone V7, TracPhone V3 and the mini-VSAT Broadband service do not generate the level of revenue that we expect or decline, our service gross margins may remain below historical levels or decline. For example, our overall service gross margin, which also includes product repair sales, Inmarsat airtime sales, and contracted engineering sales, declined from 26% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 20% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The failure to improve our mini-VSAT Broadband service gross margins would have a material adverse effect on our overall profitability. Competition may limit our ability to sell our mobile communications products and guidance and stabilization products. The mobile communications markets and defense navigation, guidance and stabilization markets in which we participate are very competitive, and we expect this competition to persist and intensify in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, which could impair our ability to sell our products. For example, improvements in the performance of lower cost gyros by competitors could potentially jeopardize sales of our fiber optic gyros. Foreign competition for our mobile satellite communications products has continued to intensify, most notably from companies that seek to compete primarily on price. We anticipate that this trend of substantial competition will continue. In the market for marine satellite TV equipment, we compete with NaviSystem Marine Electronic Systems Srl, King Controls, Cobham Sea Tel, Inc., Raymarine, Thrane & Thrane A/S and Intellian. In the market for maritime broadband service we compete with Speedcast, MTN/SeaMobile, CapRock, Schlumberger, Ship Equip, Vizada and Stratos. In the marine market for satellite communications equipment, we compete with Cobham Sea Tel, Inc., Furuno Electric Co., Ltd., Globalstar LP, Thrane & Thrane A/S, Intellian, Ship Equip, JRC and Iridium Satellite LLC. In the market for land mobile satellite TV equipment, we compete with MotoSAT, King Controls, Cobham TracStar and Winegard Company. 14 Table of Contents In the guidance and stabilization markets, we compete primarily with Honeywell International Inc., Kearfott Guidance & Navigation Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Goodrich Aerospace, IAI, and Fizoptica. Among the factors that may affect our ability to compete in our markets are the following: • many of our primary competitors are well-established companies that could have substantially greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do; • product improvements, new product developments or price reductions by competitors may weaken customer acceptance of, and reduce demand for, our products; • new technology or market trends may disrupt or displace a need for our products; and • our competitors may have lower production costs than we do, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering discounts and other promotions. The emergence of a competing small maritime VSAT antenna and complementary service or other similar service could reduce the competitive advantage we believe we currently enjoy with our 24-inch diameter TracPhone V7 and 14.5-inch diameter TracPhone V3 antennas along with our integrated mini-VSAT Broadband service. Our TracPhone V7 and TracPhone V3 systems offer customers a range of benefits due to their integrated design, hardware costs that are lower than existing maritime VSAT systems, and spread spectrum technology. We currently compete against companies that offer established maritime VSAT service using, in some cases, antennas 1-meter in diameter or larger. While we are unaware of any company offering a 14.5-inch VSAT solution comparable to our TracPhone V3, we are encountering regional competition from companies offering 24-inch VSAT systems and services. In addition, other companies could replicate some of the distinguishing features of our TracPhone V7 or TracPhone V3, which could potentially reduce the appeal of our solution, increase price competition and adversely affect sales. Moreover, consumers may choose other services such as FleetBroadband or Iridium OpenPort for their service coverage and potentially lower hardware costs despite higher service costs and slower data rates. Our ability to compete in the maritime airtime services market may be impaired if we are unable to complete or expand coverage of our mini-VSAT Broadband service around the globe to provide sufficient service capacity to meet customer demand. The TracPhone V7 and V3 and mini-VSAT Broadband service offer a range of benefits to mariners, especially in commercial markets, due to the smaller size antenna and faster, more affordable airtime. However, to support these customers globally, we may need to continue the expansion of the coverage areas of the mini-VSAT Broadband service, which is currently offered in the north Pacific Ocean, the Americas, Caribbean, North Atlantic, Europe, the Persian Gulf, Asia-Pacific, Africa, Brazil, Australian and New Zealand waters, and the Indian Ocean. If we are unable to reach agreement with third-party satellite providers to support the mini-VSAT Broadband service and its spread spectrum technology or transponder capacity is unavailable should we need to increase our capacity to meet growing demand in a given region, our ability to support vessels and aeronautical applications globally will be at risk and could reduce the attractiveness of the product and service to these customers. The purchasing and delivery schedules and priorities of the U.S. military and foreign governments are often unpredictable. We sell our fiber optic gyro systems as well as vehicle navigation products to U.S. and foreign military and government customers, either directly or as a subcontractor to other contractors. These customers often use a competitive bidding process and have unique purchasing and delivery requirements, which often makes the timing of sales to these customers unpredictable. Factors that affect their purchasing and delivery decisions include: • changes in modernization plans for military equipment; 15 Table of Contents • changes in tactical navigation requirements; • global conflicts impacting troop deployment; • priorities for current battlefield operations; • allocation of funding for military programs; • new military and operational doctrines that affect military equipment needs; • sales cycles that are long and difficult to predict; • shifting response time and/or delays in the approval process associated with the export licenses we must obtain prior to the international shipment of certain of our military products; • delays in military procurement schedules; and • delays in the testing and acceptance of our products, including delays resulting from changes in customer specifications. These factors can cause substantial fluctuations in sales of our FOG and TACNAV products from period to period. For example, sales of our FOG products increased $11.4 million, or 39%, from 2009 to 2010 driven largely by increased sales for commercial applications, such as surveying and optical stabilization, and a range of government and defense applications, including weapons stabilization. The Obama administration and Congress may change defense spending priorities, either in conjunction with the decision to commence troop withdrawals from Iraq and Afghanistan or for other reasons. Moreover, government customers and their contractors can generally cancel orders for our products for convenience or decline to exercise previously disclosed contract options. Even under firm orders with government customers, funding must often be appropriated in the budget process in order for the government to complete the contract. The cancellation of or failure to fund orders for our products could substantially reduce our net sales and results of operations. For example, our contract award from the U.S. Coast Guard for our mini-VSAT Broadband service does not impose any minimum order quantity, and the U.S. Coast Guard could order substantially fewer products and services than we anticipate. Sales of our fiber optic gyro systems and TACNAV products generally consist of a few large orders, and the delay or cancellation of a single order could substantially reduce our net sales. KVH products sold to customers in the defense industry are purchased through orders that can generally range in size from several hundred thousand dollars to more than one million dollars. For example, in July 2010, we received a $13.0 million TACNAV products order and in October 2010, we also received a $1.1 million fiber optic gyro contract. As a result, the delay or cancellation of a single order could materially reduce our net sales and results of operations. We periodically experience repeated and unanticipated delays in defense orders, which make our revenues and operating results less predictable. Because our guidance and stabilization products typically have relatively higher product gross margins than our mobile communications products, the loss of an order for guidance and stabilization products could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. Only a few customers account for a substantial portion of our guidance and stabilization revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our net sales. We derive a significant portion of our guidance and stabilization revenues from a small number of customers, most of whom are contractors for the U.S. Government. Our top four guidance and stabilization customers in 2010 accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales during 2010. The loss of business from any of these customers could substantially reduce our net sales and results of operations and could seriously harm our business. Since we are often awarded a contract as a subcontractor to a major defense supplier that is engaged in a competitive bidding process as prime contractor for a major weapons procurement program, our revenues depend significantly on the success of the prime contractors with which we align ourselves. For example, our 16 Table of Contents largest remote weapon systems customer accounted for approximately 14% and 15% of our net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, a subcontractor to this customer accounted for approximately 5% and 7% of our net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. We anticipate a sequential decline in net sales related to our largest remote weapon systems customer during the first half of 2011. We only have one customer for our aviation antenna, and the customer may cancel this agreement at any time subject to a termination charge. In February 2008, we entered into a $20.1 million long-term antenna development and production agreement with LiveTV that was subsequently increased in 2009 to $20.9 million. Under the terms of the agreement with LiveTV, we manufacture a DIRECTV-compatible satellite television antenna for use on narrowbody commercial aircraft operating in the United States. We began shipment of the antennas in the second quarter of 2009. LiveTV may terminate the agreement including any outstanding purchase orders at any time subject to a sliding scale termination charge driven by the quantity shortfall in units shipped under the agreement. As of December 31, 2010, the termination fee would be approximately $3.0 million, which would be offset by an approximate total charge of $3.2 million related to capitalized aviation research and development costs and inventory specific to the aviation antenna that would be required to be expensed if termination was invoked. As a result, if the aviation contract was terminated as of December 31, 2010, we would have recorded an approximate net charge to our income statement of $0.2 million. The cancellation of or failure to fund orders under this agreement could reduce our future net sales and negatively impact our results of operations, as we currently do not have another customer in the aviation market . Our mobile satellite products currently depend on satellite services and facilities provided by third parties, and a disruption in those services could adversely affect sales. Our satellite products include only the equipment necessary to utilize satellite services; we do not broadcast satellite television programming or own the satellites to directly provide two-way satellite communications. We currently offer satellite television products compatible with the DIRECTV and DISH Network services in the United States, the Bell TV service in Canada, the Sky Mexico service and various other regional services in other parts of the world. SES World Skies, Eutelsat, Sky Perfect-JSAT, GE Satellite, Telesat, EchoStar and Star One currently provide the satellite capacity to support the mini-VSAT Broadband service and our TracPhone V7 and V3. In addition, we have agreements with various teleports and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) around the globe to support the mini-VSAT Broadband service. We rely on Inmarsat for satellite communications services for our mini-M, Fleet and FleetBroadband compatible TracPhone products. If customers become dissatisfied with the programming, pricing, service, availability or other aspects of any of these satellite services, or if any one or more of these services becomes unavailable for any reason, we could suffer a substantial decline in sales of our satellite products. There may be no alternative service provider available in a particular geographic area, and our modem or other technology may not be compatible with the technology of any alternative service provider that may be available. In addition, the unexpected failure of a satellite could disrupt the availability of programming and services, which could reduce the demand for, or customer satisfaction with, our products. We rely upon spread spectrum communications technology developed by ViaSat and transmitted by third-party satellite providers to permit two-way broadband Internet via our 24-inch diameter TracPhone V7 antenna and our 14.5-inch diameter TracPhone V3 antenna, to be released during the second quarter of 2011, and any disruption in the availability of this technology could adversely affect sales. Our mini-VSAT Broadband service relies on spread spectrum technology developed with ViaSat, Inc., for use with satellite capacity controlled by SES World Skies, Eutelsat, Sky Perfect-JSAT, GE Satellite, Telesat, Echostar, Star One and Optus. Our TracPhone V7 and V3 two-way broadband satellite terminal combines our stabilized antenna technology with ViaSat’s ArcLight spread spectrum mobile broadband technology, along with a new maritime version of ViaSat’s ArcLight spread spectrum modem. The ArcLight technology is also 17 Table of Contents integrated within the satellite hubs that support this service. Sales of the TracPhone V7 and V3 and our mini-VSAT Broadband service could be disrupted if we fail to receive approval from regulatory authorities to provide our spread spectrum service in the waters of various countries where our customers operate or if there are issues with the availability of the ArcLight maritime modems. Investment in the initial global deployment of the mini-VSAT Broadband service has required significant capital investment and initial network costs of service, as well as operating expenses that may not be recouped if we fail to meet the subscriber levels necessary to cover those costs on an ongoing basis. It is our intent to continue to invest in and deploy the mini-VSAT Broadband network on a global basis in cooperation with ViaSat under the terms of a 10-year agreement announced in July 2008. As part of the coverage expansion, we agreed to acquire satellite capacity from Ku-band satellite operators and are in the process of purchasing new regional satellite hubs from ViaSat. Each satellite hub represents a substantial capital investment. During the initial deployment period, we have incurred a substantial increase in costs associated with the build out of the mini-VSAT Broadband global infrastructure and support capability and may continue to incur an increase in costs if we pursue expanded coverage in the future. In the short term, KVH and ViaSat will be covering the operational cost per transponder access until sufficient subscribers join the network and allow us to reach acceptable gross margin levels relating to our transponder and other network service costs, which may not occur. We currently estimate that, on average, it will require at least nine months to reach the breakeven point for a discrete region, i.e., offsetting these incremental network costs, once the service is turned on for a new coverage region. However, certain regions that are essential for our global coverage may exceed this time period before being profitable or may not be profitable. In addition, should an insufficient number of subscribers activate within a region, our operations may continue below the breakeven level for a longer duration and adversely affect our operating results and cash levels. High fuel prices, tight credit availability and environmental concerns are adversely affecting sales of our mobile communications products. Factors such as historically high fuel prices, tight credit and environmental protection laws are continuing to materially and adversely affect sales of larger vehicles and vessels for which our mobile satellite communications products are designed. Many customers finance their purchases of these vehicles and vessels, and tightened credit availability has reduced demand for both these vehicles and vessels and our mobile communications products. Moreover, in the current credit markets, financing for these purchases has been unavailable or more difficult to obtain. The increased cost of operating these vehicles and vessels is adversely affecting and may continue to adversely affect demand for our mobile satellite communications products. We may continue to increase the use of international suppliers to source components for our manufacturing operations, which could disrupt our business. Although we have historically manufactured and sourced raw materials for the majority of our products in the U.S., in order for us to compete with lower priced competitive products while also improving our profitability, we have found it desirable to source raw materials and manufactured components from foreign countries such as China and Mexico. Our increased reliance on foreign manufacturing and/or raw material supply has lengthened our supply chain and increased the risk that a disruption in that supply chain could have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. We have single dedicated manufacturing facilities for each of our mobile communications and guidance and stabilization product categories, and any significant disruption to a facility could impair our ability to deliver our products. Excluding the CommBox product, which we manufacture in Norway, we currently manufacture all of our mobile communications products at our headquarters in Middletown, Rhode Island, and the majority of our guidance and stabilization products at our facility in Tinley Park, Illinois. Some of our production processes are 18 Table of Contents complex, and we may be unable to respond rapidly to the loss of the use of either production facility. For example, our production facilities use some specialized equipment that may take time to replace if they are damaged or become unusable for any reason. In that event, shipments would be delayed, which could result in customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Finally, we have only a limited capability to increase our manufacturing capacity in the short term. If short-term demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, our inability to fulfill orders in a timely manner could also lead to customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers, and any disruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products on time or at expected cost. We obtain many key components for our products from third-party suppliers, and in some cases we use a single or a limited number of suppliers. Any interruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products until we identify and qualify a new source of supply, which could take several weeks, months or longer and could increase our costs significantly. Suppliers might change or discontinue key components, which could require us to modify our product designs. For example, in the past, we have experienced changes in the chemicals used to coat our optical fiber, which changed its characteristics and thereby necessitated design modifications. In general, we do not have written long-term supply agreements with our suppliers but instead purchase components through purchase orders, which expose us to potential price increases and termination of supply without notice or recourse. It is generally not our practice to carry significant inventories of product components, and this could magnify the impact of the loss of a supplier. If we are required to use a new source of materials or components, it could also result in unexpected manufacturing difficulties and could affect product performance and reliability. In addition, from time to time, lead times for certain components can increase significantly due to imbalances in overall market supply and demand. This, in turn, could limit our ability to satisfy the demand for certain of our products on a timely basis, and could result in some customer orders being rescheduled or cancelled. Any failure to maintain and expand our third-party distribution relationships may limit our ability to penetrate markets for mobile communications products. We market and sell our mobile communications products through an international network of independent retailers, chain stores and distributors, as well as to manufacturers of marine vessels and recreational vehicles. If we are unable to maintain or improve our distribution relationships, it could significantly limit our sales. In addition, our distribution partners may sell products of other companies, including competing products, and are generally not required to purchase minimum quantities of our products. If we are unable to improve our existing mobile communications and guidance and stabilization products and develop new, innovative products, our sales and market share may decline. The markets for mobile communications products and guidance and stabilization products are each characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. If we fail to make innovations in our existing products and reduce the costs of our products, our market share may decline. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could render our products obsolete. If our competitors successfully introduce new or enhanced products that eliminate technological advantages our products may have in a market or otherwise outperform our products, or are perceived by consumers as doing so, we may be unable to compete successfully in the markets affected by these changes. If we cannot effectively manage changes in our rate of growth, our business may suffer. We have previously expanded our operations to pursue existing and potential market opportunities, and we are continuing to expand our international operations in connection with the build-out of our mini-VSAT network. This growth placed a strain on our personnel, management, financial and other resources. Although 19 Table of Contents both our guidance and stabilization revenue and our mobile communications revenue have increased dramatically in 2010, they have both declined dramatically in earlier periods in response to economic conditions, weak consumer demand and other factors. If, in the future, any portion of our business grows more rapidly than we anticipate and we fail to manage that growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses, and the efficiency of our operations may decline. If we are unable to adjust our operating expenses on a timely basis in response to changes in revenue cycles, our results of operations may be harmed. To manage changes in our rate of growth effectively, we must, among other things: • match our manufacturing facilities and capacity to demand for our products in a timely manner; • successfully attract, train, motivate and manage appropriate numbers of employees for manufacturing, sales and customer support activities; • effectively manage our inventory and working capital; and • improve the efficiencies within our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems, and our procedures and controls. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations. To meet our growth objectives, we must attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in net sales. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Martin Kits van Heyningen, our co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. If we lost the services of Mr. Kits van Heyningen, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. We also depend on the ability of our other executive officers to work effectively as a team. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Our international business operations expose us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our activities abroad and in dealing with multiple regulatory environments. Historically, sales to customers outside the United States and Canada have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales. We have foreign sales offices in Denmark, Singapore and Norway and we otherwise support our international sales from our operations in the United States. Our limited operations in foreign countries may impair our ability to compete successfully in international markets and to meet the service and support needs of our customers in countries where we have no infrastructure. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, which may increase our costs and require significant management attention. These risks include: • technical challenges we may face in adapting our mobile communications products to function with different satellite services and technology in use in various regions around the world; • satisfaction of international regulatory requirements and delays and costs associated with procurement of any necessary licenses or permits; • restrictions on the sale of certain guidance and stabilization products to foreign military and government customers; • increased costs of providing customer support in multiple languages; 20 Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; • potentially longer sales cycles, which could slow our revenue growth from international sales; • potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • losses arising from impairment charges associated with goodwill or intangible assets; • losses arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • economic and political instability in some international markets. Exports of certain guidance and stabilization products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and require a license from the U.S. Department of State prior to shipment. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. Certain of our products have military or strategic applications and are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a product line or any amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in net sales. Our business may suffer if we cannot protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete depends significantly upon our patents, our source code and our other proprietary technology. The steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Our patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights we have under our patents could provide no competitive advantages. Existing trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could increase the likelihood of misappropriation. Furthermore, other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competing technology could seriously harm our competitive position, which could lead to a substantial reduction in net sales. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and it may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition. Our industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. 21 Table of Contents We do not generally conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. From time to time we have faced claims by third parties that our products or technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, and we may face similar claims in the future. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly net sales and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stock. We have at times experienced significant fluctuations in our net sales and results of operations from one quarter to the next. Our future net sales and results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that our net sales or results of operations in a quarter will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the market price of our common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including: • changes in demand for our mobile communications products and services and guidance and stabilization products and services; • the timing and size of individual orders from military customers; • the mix of products we sell; • our ability to manufacture, test and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, including the availability and timely delivery of components and subassemblies from our suppliers; • our success in winning competitions for orders; • the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • expense incurred in pursuing acquisitions; • market and competitive pricing pressures; • general economic climate; and • seasonality of pleasure boat and recreational vehicle usage. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for network infrastructure, facilities, equipment, and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if our net sales decline or do not grow as much as we anticipate, we might be unable to maintain or improve our operating margins. Any failure to achieve anticipated net sales could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could negatively impact our income tax expense, net income and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many 22 Table of Contents transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities and to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax (benefit) expense, net income (loss), and cash flows in the period in which such determination is made. Deferred tax assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance reduces deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value, which assumes that it is more likely than not that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the net carrying value. We review our deferred tax assets and valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. As part of our review, we consider positive and negative evidence, including cumulative results in recent years. If, during our quarterly reviews of our deferred tax assets, we determine that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the net carrying value of our deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance to reduce the tax assets to estimated realizable value. This could result in a material income tax charge. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has historically been volatile. During the period from November 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $2.81 to $16.66. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • changing needs of military customers; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • market conditions in our industries; and • the global macroeconomic and geopolitical environment. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Major stock market indices experienced dramatic declines in 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities litigation against that company. Any such litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses defending against the claim, divert the time and attention of our management and result in significant damages. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results. We evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to acquire other businesses as they arise, such as our recent acquisition of Virtek Communication. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing this and other such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, we incurred $0.6 million of transaction expenses in 2010 in connection with the Virtek Communication acquisition. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. 23 Table of Contents Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational and other benefits we anticipate from any acquisition. Competition for acquisition opportunities could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. Further, our approach to acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, such as: • charges related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw; • diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources; • loss of key acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the assumption of legal liabilities; and • losses arising from impairment charges associated with goodwill or intangible assets. Our charter and by-laws and Delaware law may deter takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that many stockholders may find attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to take some corporate actions, including the election of directors. These provisions relate to: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and determine its terms, without a stockholder vote; • the classification of our Board of Directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders; • the limitation that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote; • the prohibition against stockholder actions by written consent; • the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 