ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors described below represent the Corporation’s principal risks. Global Economic Conditions: The Corporation operates in a global, competitive environment, which gives rise to operating and market risk. The Corporation sells substantially all of its products to Dow, which operates in a competitive, global environment, and competes worldwide for sales. Increased levels of competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s operations. Economic conditions around the world and in certain industries in which the Corporation does business also impact sales price and volume. As a result, an economic downturn in the geographic areas or industries in which UCC sells its products could reduce demand for these products and result in decreased sales volume, which could have a negative impact on UCC’s results of operations. In addition, the economic environment impacts the fair value of pension assets, which could trigger increased future funding requirements of the pension trust. Raw Materials: Volatility in purchased feedstock and energy costs impacts the Corporation’s operating costs and adds variability to earnings. Purchased feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of the Corporation’s total production costs and operating expenses. When these costs increase the Corporation is not always able to immediately raise selling prices; and ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is greatly dependent on market conditions. Conversely, when these costs decline, selling prices decline as well. As a result, volatility in these costs could negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. Supply/Demand Balance: Earnings generated by the Corporation vary based in part on the balance of supply relative to demand within the industry. The balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly impacted by the addition of new capacity, especially for basic commodities where capacity is generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. Financial Flexibility: Market conditions could reduce Dow’s financial flexibility, which could impact the financial flexibility of the Corporation. Dow’s interest and dividend payments could increase Dow’s vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and reduce Dow’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, the economic environment could result in a contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace and reduce sources of liquidity for Dow. Since Dow is a service provider, material debtor, and the major customer of the Corporation, reduced financial flexibility for Dow could potentially impact the financial flexibility of the Corporation. Environmental Compliance: Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. The Corporation is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At December 31, 2010, the Corporation had accrued obligations of $95 million ($84 million at December 31, 2009) for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $20 million ($21 million at December 31, 2009) for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Corporation has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to appro ximately twice that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Corporation’s operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. 5 Table of Contents Litigation: The Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions. The Corporation is involved in a number of legal proceedings and claims with both private and governmental parties. These cover a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to: product liability; trade regulation; governmental regulatory proceedings; health, safety and environmental matters; employment; patents; contracts; taxes; and commercial disputes. With the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability described below, it is the opinion of the Corporation’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. The Corporation is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. At December 31, 2010, the Corporation’s asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $728 million ($839 million at December 31, 2009) and the Corporation’s receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $50 million ($84 million at December 31, 2009). At December 31, 2010, the Corporation also had receivables of $248 million ($448 million at December 31, 2009) for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs. Management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of the Corporation’s asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. Chemical Safety: Increased concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in more restrictive regulations from local, state and federal governments and could lead to new regulations. Concerns regarding the safe use of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on health and the environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing and continued pressure for more stringent regulatory intervention. These concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability of the Corporation’s products, the Corporation’s reputation and the cost to comply with regulations. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. These concerns could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. Operational Event: A significant operational event could negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. As a diversified chemical manufacturing company, the Corporation’s operations, the transportation of products or severe weather could result in an unplanned event that could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors or the public at large, which could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. In the past, major hurricanes have caused significant disruption in UCC’s operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region, and the supply of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of UCC’s products. Due to the Corporation’s substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast, similar severe weather in the future could negatively affect UCC’s results of operations. Implementation of ERP system: Dow’s implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system may adversely affect the Corporation’s business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Beginning, in the first quarter of 2011, Dow is implementing a new ERP system that will deliver a new generation of information systems and work processes. Through the master services agreement, Dow provides accounting, treasury and procurement services to the Corporation. ERP implementations are complex and very time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that take several years. If Dow does not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect financial reporting systems, the Corporation’s ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 