Item 1A. Risk Factors In the course of conducting operations, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to its business. The following discusses some of the key inherent risk factors that could affect the Company’s business and operations, as well as other risk factors which are particularly relevant to the Company. Other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report could also adversely affect the Company’s business and operations, and these risk factors should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that may affect the Company. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements about the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness, fund capital expenditures and retire portions of its 2014 notes, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under the First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated September 9, 2010 (the “First Amended Credit Agreement”). The Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to redeem portions of the 2014 notes under its Deleveraging Strategy will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The business may not generate cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to the Company in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flow or borrowings, the Company may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments or redemptions of the 2014 notes under the Deleveraging Strategy or seek to raise additional capital. The Company may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms that are acceptable or at all. The terms of its existing or future debt agreements may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flows or to achieve any of these alternatives could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. In addition, without such refinancing, the Company could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in its payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. The Company’s First Amended Credit Agreement and the indenture with respect to the 2014 notes dated May 26, 2006 between the Company and its subsidiary guarantors and U.S. Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the “Indenture”) limit its ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from any such sale. Furthermore, the 2014 notes and the First Amended Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of its assets. Therefore, the Company may not be able to sell its assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable the Company to meet its debt service obligations. The Company’s future operating results, deteriorating conditions in the credit markets, declining credit ratings or abnormally high interest rates or other adverse debt instrument terms could make it difficult for the Company to refinance its indebtedness on favorable terms or at all when it comes due. The Company’s ability to refinance its indebtedness on favorable terms or at all will depend on its ability to generate adequate operating results in the future, the prevailing conditions of the credit markets, the Company’s credit agency debt ratings, and interest rate and other debt instrument terms available in the credit markets at the time the Company refinances its indebtedness. The 2014 notes are due and payable in May 2014. Outstanding amounts under the First Amended Credit Agreement are due and payable in September 2015; however, if the 2014 notes have not been paid in full on or before February 15, 2014, the maturity date of the Company’s revolving credit facility will be automatically adjusted to February 15, 2014. If the Company were unable to refinance its indebtedness on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 The Company relies on accurate financial reporting information from equity method investees that it does not control. Errors in financial reporting by these equity method investees could be material to the Company and cause it to have to restate past financial statements. The Company has ownership interests in equity method investees that it does not control. The Company relies on accurate financial reporting information from these entities for preparation of its quarterly and annual financial statements. Errors in the financial reporting information received by the Company from any of these equity method investees could be material to the Company and require it to have to restate past financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such restatements, if they occur could have a material adverse effect on the Company or the market price of its securities. The Company faces intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign yarn producers and importers of textile and apparel products. The Company’s industry is highly competitive. The Company competes not only against domestic and foreign yarn producers, but also against importers of foreign sourced fabric and apparel into the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business. The Company anticipates that competitor expansions or new competition within these regions may lead to reduced industry utilization rates that could result in reduced gross profit margins for the Company’s products, which may materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, Petrobras Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”), a public oil company controlled by the Brazilian government, announced the construction of a polyester manufacturing complex located in the northeast sector of the country. This new investment in polyester capacity is made by Petrobras through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Petrosuape-Companhia Petroquimica de Pernambuco (“Petrosuape”). Petrosuape will produce PTA, polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) resin, polyester Chip, POY and textured polyester. Construction on various phases of the project has commenced. Once operational, the textured polyester operations of Petrosuape will most likely be a significant competitor. The textured polyester operations of Petrosuape are expected to have approximately twice the capacity of the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary, Unifi do Brasil. Petrosuape’s textured polyester operation started limited production in July 2010 and is expected to be in full commercial production by mid 2012. Such significant capacity expansion may negatively affect the utilization rate of the synthetic textile filament market in Brazil, thereby potentially impacting the operating results of Unifi do Brasil. In addition, Unifi do Brasil may transfer much of its current POY purchases from imports to Petrosuape POY. Such a shift will make Unifi do Brasil a significant customer of Petrosuape’s operations; however, it would likely result in Unifi do Brasil losing certain economic assistance benefits provided by local economic incentives. Competitive pricing from Petrosuape and/or efficiency gains in Unifi do Brasil’s operations may not make up for the loss of these incentives. A failure to make up these benefits could have a material adverse effect on Unifi do Brasil’s and/or the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The primary competitive factors in the textile industry include price, quality, product styling and differentiation, flexibility of production and finishing, delivery time and customer service. The needs of particular customers and the characteristics of particular products determine the relative importance of these various factors. Because the Company, and the supply chains in which the Company operates, do not typically operate on the basis of long-term contracts with textile and apparel customers, these competitive factors could cause the Company’s customers to rapidly shift to other producers. A large number of the Company’s foreign competitors have significant competitive advantages, including lower labor costs, lower raw materials and favorable currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. If any of these advantages increase, the Company’s products could become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result. In addition, while traditionally these foreign competitors have focused on commodity production, they are now increasingly focused on value-added products, where the Company continues to generate higher margins. The Company, and the supply chains in which the Company operates, may not be able to continue to compete effectively with imported foreign-made textile and apparel products, which would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. An increase of illegal transshipments of textile and apparel goods into the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. According to industry experts and trade associations, there has been a significant amount of illegal transshipments of apparel products into the U.S. and such illegal transshipments continue to negatively impact the U.S. textile market. Illegal transshipment involves circumventing quotas by falsely claiming that textiles and apparel are a product of a particular country of origin or include yarn of a particular country of origin to avoid paying higher duties or to receive benefits from regional FTAs, such as NAFTA and CAFTA. If illegal transshipment is not monitored and enforcement is not effective, these shipments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 As product demand flow shifts within a region the Company could lose its cost competitiveness due to the location of its assets. The Company’s polyester segment primarily manufactures its products in the U.S. and El Salvador. The Company’s nylon segment primarily manufactures its products in Colombia and the U.S. The Company’s international segment primarily manufactures its products in Brazil and has a sales office in China. As product demand flow shifts within the regions in which the Company does business, it could lose its cost competitiveness due to the location of its assets. The Company’s operations may incur higher manufacturing, transportation and/or raw material costs in its present operating locations than it could achieve should its operations be located in these new product demand centers. This could adversely affect the competitiveness of the Company’s operations and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A decline in general economic or political conditions and changes in consumer spending could cause the Company’s sales and profits to decline. The Company’s products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishing, automotive, industrial and other similar end-use markets. Demand for furniture and durable goods, such as automobiles, is often affected significantly by economic conditions. Demand for a number of categories of apparel also tends to be tied to economic cycles and customer preference. Domestic demand for textile products therefore tends to vary with the business cycles of the U.S. economy as well as changes in global trade flows, and economic and political conditions. Future armed conflicts, terrorist activities, economic and political conditions or natural disasters in the U.S. or abroad and any consequential actions on the part of the U.S. government and others may cause general economic conditions in the U.S. to deteriorate or otherwise reduce U.S. consumer spending. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility. The Company cannot predict when economic conditions will improve or stabilize. A prolonged period of economic volatility or continued decline could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A decline in general economic conditions or consumer confidence may also lead to significant changes to inventory levels and, in turn, replenishment orders placed with suppliers. These changing demands ultimately work their way through the supply chain and could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Also, as one of the many participants in the U.S. and regional textile and apparel supply chains, the Company’s business and competitive position are directly impacted by the business and financial condition of the other participants across the supply chains in which it operates, including other regional yarn manufacturers, knitters and weavers. If other supply chain participants are unable to access capital, fund their operations and make required technological and other investments in their businesses or experience diminished demand for their products, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to implement future technological advances in the textile industry or fund capital expenditure requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and net sales. The Company’s operating results depend to a significant extent on its ability to continue to introduce innovative products and applications and to continue to develop its production processes to be a competitive producer. Accordingly, to maintain its competitive position and its revenue base, the Company must continually modernize its manufacturing processes, plants and equipment. To this end, the Company has historically made significant investments in its manufacturing infrastructure. Future technological advances in the textile industry may result in an increase in the efficiency of existing manufacturing and distribution systems or the innovation of new products and the Company may not be able to adapt to such technological changes or offer such products on a timely basis if it does not incur significant capital expenditures. Existing, proposed or yet undeveloped technologies may render its technology less profitable or less viable, and the Company may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. To the extent sources of funds are insufficient to meet its ongoing capital improvement requirements, the Company would need to seek alternative sources of financing or curtail or delay capital spending plans. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary financing when needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company is unable to predict which of the many possible future products and services will meet the evolving industry standards and consumer demands. If the Company fails to make future capital improvements necessary to continue the modernization of its manufacturing operations and reduction of its costs, its competitive position may suffer, and its net sales may decline. 13 The significant price volatility of many of the Company’s raw materials and rising energy costs may result in increased production costs, which the Company may not be able to pass on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of the Company’s raw materials and energy costs are derived from petroleum-based chemicals. The prices for petroleum and petroleum-related products and energy costs are volatile and dependent on global supply and demand dynamics, including geo-political risks. While the Company enters into raw material supply agreements from time to time, these agreements typically provide index pricing based on quoted feedstock market prices. Therefore, its supply agreements provide only limited protection against price volatility. While the Company has at times in the past matched cost increases with corresponding product price increases, the Company was not always able to immediately raise product prices, and, ultimately, pass on underlying cost increases to its customers. The Company has in the past lost and expects that it may continue to lose, customers to its competitors as a result of price increases. In addition, its competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost due to market regulations that favor local producers, and certain other market regulations that favor the Company over other producers may be amended or repealed. Additional raw material and energy cost increases that the Company is not able to fully pass on to customers or the loss of a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company depends upon limited sources for raw materials, and interruptions in supply could increase its costs of production and cause its operations to suffer. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties for certain raw material supplies, such as POY and Chip. Although alternative sources of raw materials exist, the Company may not continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of such materials on acceptable terms, or at all, from other sources. The Company is dependent on NAFTA and CAFTA qualified suppliers of POY which in the future may experience interruptions or limitations in the supply of its raw materials, which would increase its product costs and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These POY suppliers are also at risk with their raw material supply chains. Any disruption or curtailment in the supply of any of its raw materials could cause the Company to reduce or cease its production in general or require the Company to increase its pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken the Company’s competitive position dramatically and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A number of sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products, particularly apparel, hosiery and home furnishings, are subject to intense foreign competition. Other sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products may in the future become subject to more intense foreign competition. There are currently a number of trade regulations and duties in place to protect the U.S. textile industry against competition from low-priced foreign producers, such as China. Changes in such trade regulations and duties may make its products less attractive from a price standpoint than the goods of its competitors or the finished apparel products of a competitor in the supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, increased foreign capacity and imports that compete directly with its products could have a similar effect. Furthermore, one of the Company’s key business strategies is to expand its business within countries that are parties to FTAs with the U.S. Any relaxation of duties or other trade protections with respect to countries that are not parties to those FTAs could therefore decrease the importance of the trade agreements and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The proposed Korea FTA is potentially problematic for various sectors of the U.S. textile industry. In contrast to FTA’s in recent years, the Korea FTA is the first FTA since the NAFTA agreement where the country in question has a large, vertically integrated and developed textile sector. Duty-free treatment under the proposed agreement could adversely affect the U.S. textile and apparel industries due to concerns with transshipments and the fact that this FTA would give Korea a greater competitive advantage by further reducing the cost of Korean products in the U.S. The Korea FTA was negotiated under “Fast Track” during the Bush Administration, and changes to the treatment of automobiles under the FTA were negotiated by the Obama Administration to reduce opposition in the U.S. Congress. The Obama Administration has indicated it would like to introduce the bill in Congress in the fall of 2011. The U.S. textile industry continues to work with the U.S. Trade Office and the Administration to address its concerns with the Korea FTA. The Company has significant foreign operations and its results of operations may be adversely affected by the risks associated with doing business in foreign locations. The Company has operations in Brazil, China, Colombia, El Salvador and a joint venture in Israel. The Company serves customers in Canada, Mexico, Israel and various countries in Europe, Central America, South America, Africa, and Asia. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by its domestic operations that can materially impact the Company’s supply chains, or other aspects of its foreign operations. The risks of international operations include trade barriers, duties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political unrest, general economic risks, required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including tax laws, the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, taxes on distributions or deemed distributions to the Company or any of its U.S. subsidiaries, maintenance of minimum capital requirements and import and export controls. 14 Through its subsidiaries, the Company is subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws can affect the Company’s earnings, as can the resolution of various pending and contested tax issues. In most jurisdictions, the Company regularly has audits and examinations by the designated tax authorities, and additional tax assessments are common. Through its foreign operations, the Company is also exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will impact period-to-period comparisons of its reported results. Additionally, the Company operates in countries with foreign exchange controls. These controls may limit its ability to repatriate funds from its international operations and joint ventures or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access cash from these operations. Unifi do Brasil receives certain regulatory benefits through the sales of its product in Brazil. If these benefits are significantly reduced or repealed, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and cash flows. The Company’s Deleveraging Strategy could result in the Company maintaining larger balances outstanding under its First Amended Credit Agreement and decrease the Company’s excess borrowing availability, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under its debt agreements. On an ongoing basis, the Company anticipates utilizing its liquidity to continue to redeem portions of its 2014 notes incrementally through a combination of internally generated cash and borrowings under the First Amended Credit Agreement. The Company expects to maintain a continuous balance outstanding under the First Amended Credit Agreement and to hedge a substantial amount of the interest rate risk in order to ensure its interest savings as it executes the Deleveraging Strategy. The Company’s First Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio test if borrowing capacity is less than 15% of the total credit facility. The consummation of the redemption of the 2014 notes and implementation of the Deleveraging Strategy may result in the Company maintaining reduced levels of excess availability under the First Amended Credit Agreement, but not to the extent that the fixed charge coverage ratio test applies. If the Company’s availability under the First Amended Credit Agreement falls below 15% of the total credit facility, it may not be able to maintain the required fixed charge coverage ratio. Additionally, the First Amended Credit Agreement restricts the Company’s ability to make certain distributions and investments should its borrowing capacity decrease to below 27.5% of the total credit facility. These restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet its capital needs. The Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to its First Amended Credit Agreement if for any reason the Company is unable to meet its requirements, or the Company may not be able to refinance its debt on terms acceptable to it, or at all. The success of the Company depends on the ability of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to effectively work together to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s strategies. If it is unable to do so, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company may suffer. The failure to retain current key managers or key members of the design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for its operations could be detrimental to the Company’s business. The Company currently does not have any employment agreements with its corporate officers and cannot assure investors that any of these individuals will remain with the Company. The Company currently does not have life insurance policies on any of the members of the senior management team. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of the Company’s facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s manufacturing processes could be affected by operational problems that could impair its production capability. Each of its facilities contains complex and sophisticated machines that are used in its manufacturing processes. Disruptions at any of its facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of its machines; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of its facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 The Company’s future success will depend in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights, and the Company’s inability to enforce these rights could cause it to lose sales and any competitive advantage it has. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to protect and preserve its rights in its trademarks and other intellectual property it owns or licenses. The Company relies on the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and other countries, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect its intellectual property rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties, employees or contractors from using its intellectual property without authorization, breaching any nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements with it, or independently developing technology that is similar to the Company’s property. The use of the Company’s intellectual property by others without authorization may reduce any competitive advantage that it has developed, cause it to lose sales or otherwise harm its business. The Company has obtained U.S. and foreign trademark registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that its applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities or that third parties may not seek to oppose or otherwise challenge its registrations or applications. A failure to obtain or maintain trademark registrations in the U.S. and other countries could limit the Company’s ability to protect its trademarks and impede its marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. The Company cannot be certain that the conduct of its business does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, or that third parties do not and will not infringe on or misappropriate its intellectual property. The Company may be subject to, or initiate, legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of its business, which could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of its personnel. Depending on the success of these proceedings, the Company may be required to enter into licensing or consent agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), or to pay damages or cease using certain trademarks or other intellectual property. Although its intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position, no single trademark, patent, copyright or license is, in the Company’s view, of such value to it that the Company’s business would be materially affected by the expiration, termination or infringement thereof. Failure to successfully reduce the Company’s production costs may adversely affect its financial results. A significant portion of the Company’s strategy relies upon its ability to successfully rationalize and improve the efficiency of its operations. In particular, the Company’s strategy relies on its ability to reduce its production costs in order to remain competitive. The Company has consolidated multiple unprofitable businesses and made significant capital expenditures to more completely automate its production facilities to lessen its dependence on labor and decrease waste. If the Company is not able to continue to successfully implement cost reduction measures, or if these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings that it expects going forward or result in higher than expected costs, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is currently implementing various strategic business initiatives, and the success of the Company’s business will depend on its ability to effectively develop and implement these initiatives. The Company is currently implementing various strategic business initiatives, including a new recycling center that improves its capability and flexibility in the production of PVA yarns and vertically integrating into recycled polyester Chip production for use in its Repreve product offering. The development and implementation of these initiatives requires financial and management commitments outside of day-to-day operations. These commitments could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and profitability, particularly if the initiatives prove to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if the Company is unable to implement an initiative in a timely manner, or if those initiatives turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. The Company’s outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: ● its high level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to the 2014 notes, including its repurchase obligations; ● the restrictions imposed on the operation of its business may hinder its ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities to grow its business; ● its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; ● the Company must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to the Company for operations and other purposes; ● its high level of indebtedness could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that may have proportionately less debt; ● it may be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under its First Amended Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest; 16 ● its cost of borrowing may increase; ● its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates may be limited; and ● its high level of indebtedness makes the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in its business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness. Despite its current indebtedness levels, the Company may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with its substantial leverage. The Company and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of its current debt restrict, but do not completely prohibit, the Company from doing so. The Company’s First Amended Credit Agreement permits up to $100,000 of borrowings, which the Company can request be increased to $150,000 under certain circumstances, with a borrowing base specified in the credit facility as equal to specified percentages of eligible accounts receivable and inventory. In addition, the Indenture allows the Company to issue additional notes under certain circumstances and to incur certain other additional secured debt, and allows its foreign subsidiaries to incur additional debt. The Indenture does not prevent the Company from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other liabilities are added to its current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. The terms of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent the Company from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. The terms of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company. These restrictions will limit or prohibit, among other things, its ability to: ● incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock; ● repay subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; ● pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase the Company’s stock; ● issue capital stock; ● make certain investments or acquisitions; ● create liens; ● sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; ● enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; and ● restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from its subsidiaries. These restrictions could limit its ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet its capital needs. The Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to its First Amended Credit Agreement if for any reason the Company is unable to meet its requirements or the Company may not be able to refinance its indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to it, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Indenture or its First Amended Credit Agreement. An event of default under its debt agreements would permit some of its lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under its First Amended Credit Agreement would permit the lenders under the First Amended Credit Agreement to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that agreement. Furthermore, if the Company was unable to repay the amounts due and payable under its First Amended Credit Agreement, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and force the Company into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event its lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of its borrowings, the Company and its guarantor subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may be: ● limited in how it conducts its business; ● unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or ● unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect the Company’s ability to grow in accordance with its plans. 17 The Company has made and may continue to make investments in entities that it does not control. The Company has established joint ventures and made minority interest investments designed, among other things, to increase its vertical integration, increase efficiencies in its procurement, manufacturing processes, marketing and distribution in the U.S. and other markets. The Company’s inability to control entities in which it invests may affect its ability to receive distributions from those entities or to fully implement its business plan. The incurrence of debt or entry into other agreements by an entity not under its control may result in restrictions or prohibitions on that entity’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions. Even where these entities are not restricted by contract or by law from making distributions, the Company may not be able to influence the occurrence or timing of such distributions. In addition, if any of the other investors in these entities fails to observe its commitments, that entity may not be able to operate according to its business plan or the Company may be required to increase its level of commitment. If any of these events were to occur, its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Because the Company does not own a majority or maintain voting control of these entities, the Company does not have the ability to control their policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control these entities or partners may differ from the Company’s, and they may cause such entities to take actions which are not in the Company’s best interest. If the Company is unable to maintain its relationships with its partners in these entities, the Company could lose its ability to operate in these areas which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Parkdale America, LLC joint venture may lose Economic Adjustment Assistance to Users of Upland Cotton which could adversely affect the Company’s investment income and cash flows. One of the Company’s joint ventures, Parkdale America, LLC (“PAL”), receives economic adjustment payments (“EAP”) from the Commodity Credit Corporation under the Economic Assistance program to Users of Upland Cotton, Subpart C of the 2008 Farm Bill. The program provides textile mills a subsidy of four cents per pound on eligible upland cotton consumed during the first four years and three cents per pound for the last six years of the program. The economic assistance received under this program must be used to acquire, construct, install, modernize, develop, convert or expand land, plant, buildings, equipment, or machinery. Capital expenditures must be directly attributable to the purpose of manufacturing upland cotton into eligible cotton products in the U.S. Since August 1, 2008, PAL has received $65,164 of economic assistance under the program. Should PAL no longer meet the criteria to receive economic assistance under the program or should the program be discontinued, PAL’s business could be significantly impacted. Compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. The Company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern its activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. Future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from its properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of its properties. While the Company is not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a description of the name, age, position and offices held, and the period served in such position or offices for each of the executive officers of the Company. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer WILLIAM L. JASPER — Age: 58 – Mr. Jasper was appointed Chairman of the Board in February 2011 and has served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. In September 2004, Mr. Jasper joined the Company as the General Manager of the Polyester Division and later was promoted to Vice President of Sales in April 2006. Prior to joining the Company, he was the Director of INVISTA’s Dacron® polyester filament business. Before working at INVISTA, Mr. Jasper held various management positions in operations, technology, sales and business for DuPont since 1980. He has been a director since September 2007 and is the Chairman of the Board’s Executive Committee. President and Chief Operating Officer R. ROGER BERRIER — Age: 42 – Mr. Berrier was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2011. Mr. Berrier had been the Executive Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Asian Operations of the Company since September 2007. Mr. Berrier had been the Vice President of Commercial Operations since April 2006 and the Commercial Operations Manager responsible for corporate product development, marketing and brand sales management from April 2004 to April 2006. Mr. Berrier joined the Company in 1991 and has held various management positions within operations, including international operations, machinery technology, research and development and quality control. He has served as a director on the Board since September 2007 and is a member of the Board’s Executive Committee. Vice Presidents RONALD L. SMITH — Age: 43 – Mr. Smith has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. He was appointed Vice President of Finance and Treasurer in September 2007. Mr. Smith held the position of Treasurer and had additional responsibility for Investor Relations from May 2005 to October 2007 and was the Vice President of Finance, Unifi Kinston, LLC from September 2004 to April 2005. Mr. Smith joined the Company in 1994 and has held positions as Controller, Chief Accounting Officer and Director of Business Development and Corporate Strategy. THOMAS H. CAUDLE, JR. — Age: 59 – Mr. Caudle has been the Vice President of Manufacturing since October 2006. He was the Vice President of Global Operations of the Company from April 2003 until October 2006. Mr. Caudle had been Senior Vice President in charge of manufacturing for the Company since July 2000 and Vice President of Manufacturing Services of the Company since January 1999. Mr. Caudle has been an employee of the Company since 1982. CHARLES F. MCCOY— Age: 47 – Mr. McCoy has been the Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of the Company since October 2000, the Corporate Compliance Officer since 2002, the Corporate Governance Officer of the Company since 2004, and Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. Mr. McCoy has been an employee of the Company since January 2000, when he joined the Company as Corporate Secretary and General Counsel. Each of the executive officers was elected by the Company’s Board at the Annual Meeting of the Board held on October 27, 2010. Each executive officer was elected to serve until the next Annual Meeting of the Board or until his successor was elected and qualified. No executive officer has a family relationship as close as first cousin with any other executive officer or director. 19 