ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. We may not be profitable in the future. We have a history of variable profitability from operations. Although we generated net income during 2005, and in eight of the last twelve fiscal quarters, we incurred net losses of $6.1 million in 2004 and $1.5 million in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $14.5 million. 11 Table of Contents Shifts in our product sales mix toward our mobile satellite communications products may reduce our overall gross margins. Our mobile communications products have historically had lower product gross margins than our defense products. During 2005, sales of our defense products grew at a substantially higher rate than our overall sales growth. However, during 2004, sales of our defense products declined compared to 2003. If the current shift in the product sales mix of satellite communications and defense products were to reverse, we could return to lower gross margins in the future. The market for our mobile satellite TV products for minivans, SUVs and other passenger vehicles is still new and emerging, and our business may not grow as we expect. We began shipping the TracVision A5 in September 2003. It was the first commercially available, low-profile mobile satellite TV antenna practical for use on minivans, SUVs and other passenger vehicles. Accordingly, the market for this product remains new and emerging. Consumers may not respond favorably to live satellite TV in passenger vehicles, and the market may not accept the TracVision A5 in a widespread manner. The relatively early stages of development of this market continues to make it difficult for us to predict customer demand accurately. For example, although sales of the TracVision A5 have grown between 2004 and 2005, the sales trend is below our original expectations. We have previously experienced temporary issues related to our production process and availability of adequate component supply. Although we believe we have successfully addressed the issues that have arisen, similar issues or other latent defects in the TracVision A5 could adversely affect sales. We believe the success of the TracVision A5 will depend upon consumers’ assessment of whether or not it meets their expectations for performance, quality, price and design. For example, the TracVision A5 is designed for use on open roads in the continental United States where there is a clear view of the transmitting satellite in the southern sky. Among the factors that could affect the success of the TracVision A5 are: • the extent to which TracVision A5 gains the acceptance of the automotive OEMs; • the performance, price and availability of competing or alternative products relative to the TracVision A5; • the extent to which customers perceive mobile satellite TV services as a luxury or a preferred convenience; • difficulties or inconveniences associated with scheduling installation at the point of sale; • our limited experience with marketing a product to the automotive market, which is substantially larger and more fragmented than our other markets; • the extent to which customers prefer live TV over recorded media; • customers’ willingness to pay monthly fees for satellite television service in automobiles; • the adoption of laws or regulations that restrict or ban live television or other video technology in vehicles; • poor performance arising from improper installation or installation of damaged equipment; and • the extent to which increasing fuel prices may negatively affect consumer demand for SUVs and other large passenger vehicles. Our effort to enter the OEM market for embedded mobile satellite TV products may not be successful. During 2005, we announced that we intend to support factory installation of an embedded version of our TracVision A5 mobile satellite TV antenna for automobiles. However, the timetable for potential OEM acceptance of the embedded system is uncertain, and our efforts to enter this market may not be successful. In particular, there is a wide range of vehicle roof designs, environmental requirements and performance standards that our new product will have to address, and we may encounter unanticipated difficulties in designing antennas 12 Table of Contents that will satisfy all of the unique requirements of various vehicle configurations. In addition, our success in entering this market will depend in part on the close cooperation of vehicle manufacturers, and we cannot be certain that we will obtain the necessary cooperation. Because different vehicles may require different designs, our manufacturing efficiency for these embedded antennas may be lower and we may generate lower margins than for the TracVision A5. The expenses we expect to incur in pursuing this market may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect that others will introduce competing mobile satellite TV antennas for automobiles. When we began shipping our TracVision A5 in September 2003, it was the only commercially available, low-profile mobile satellite TV antenna for use on minivans, SUVs and other passenger vehicles. Any advantage we may have had by being the first to market such a product may erode as others enter this market. For example, RaySat made an initial, limited shipment of a phased-array satellite antenna for automobiles late in 2005. When or if it enters full production, it is expected to be sold exclusively though Audiovox as an Audiovox-branded product. Winegard has also previously announced its intention to offer an in-motion automotive satellite TV antenna. In addition, SIRIUS Satellite Radio announced in January 2005 that it intends to introduce in 2006 a service offering several streaming video channels through SIRIUS’ existing satellite radio system. In January 2005, Delphi Corp., a prominent supplier of automotive parts, announced a new agreement with Comcast Corporation to work together to develop ways to allow users to select video content and transfer it to an in-vehicle entertainment system. No details were provided as to the time frame for a possible product. Competing satellite antenna products may have a slightly lower profile and customers may delay purchasing the TracVision A5 in anticipation of the release of any of these products. Competition from any of these products could impair our ability to sell the TracVision A5 and may force us to reduce the price of the TracVision A5. Moreover, Delphi’s long-term relationships with automobile manufacturers may give it a significant advantage in selling mobile satellite TV antennas to those manufacturers. We must achieve additional significant cost reductions for the TracVision A5 to reach our targeted profit margins. Our product profit margins for the TracVision A5 have been low since its introduction. To reach our targeted profit margins, we must continue to significantly reduce our manufacturing costs for the TracVision A5. Although we have had success in improving profit margins since the introduction of the TracVision A5 in September 2003, we may be unable to achieve the additional cost reductions necessary to achieve our overall target profit margins. Although we have cost reduction programs in place that include obtaining volume purchasing discounts and redesigning certain components using lower cost materials and processes, technological or other challenges may prevent us from achieving all of the necessary cost reductions. Moreover, if the price of the TracVision A5 is not attractive to a broad range of customers, we may be forced to further lower the price, which would further impair our product profit margins unless we are able to achieve corresponding cost reductions. High fuel prices may adversely affect sales of our mobile satellite communications products. Fuel prices have been high and may remain high or increase in the foreseeable future. High fuel prices tend to have a disproportionate impact on the larger vehicles and vessels for which our mobile satellite communications products are designed, such as marine vessels, recreational vehicles and SUVs, because they consume relatively large quantities of fuel. The increased cost of operating these vehicles and vessels is adversely affecting and may continue to adversely affect demand for our mobile satellite communications products. The market for mobile Internet services in vehicles and vessels may fail to develop or may be satisfied by alternative technological approaches. Mobile Internet access is a relatively new market that is currently focused primarily on cell phones and Internet-enabled PDAs. We will serve as a distributor of the MSN TV service to the marine, automotive, and RV markets and as such, plan to offer what we believe will be a unique mobile Internet solution. However, 13 Table of Contents competing products based around high-speed cellular services are available for single users and in integrated EVDO/WiFi hubs. Other technological developments, such as proposed WiMAX networks and Internet-via-satellite services may also displace wireless services with regard to range and cost, preventing us from successfully marketing and selling mobile Internet systems in the mobile marketplace. Customers for TACNAV and our other defense products include the U.S. military and foreign governments, whose purchasing schedules and priorities can be unpredictable. We sell TACNAV and our other defense products to the U.S. military and foreign military and government customers. These customers have unique purchasing requirements, which can make sales to these customers unpredictable. Factors that affect their purchasing decisions include: • priorities for current battlefield operations; • changes in modernization plans for military equipment; • changes in tactical navigation requirements; • allocation of funding for military programs; • new military and operational doctrines that affect military equipment needs; • sales cycles that are long and difficult to predict; • shifting response time and / or delays in the approval process associated with the export licenses we must obtain prior to the international shipment of certain of our military products; • delays in military procurement schedules; and • delays in the testing and acceptance of our products. These factors can cause substantial fluctuations in sales of TACNAV and our other defense products from period to period. Moreover, TACNAV and most of our other defense products must meet military quality standards, and our products may not continue to meet existing standards or more rigorous standards adopted in the future. Any failure to meet military contract specifications may produce delays as we attempt to improve our design, development, manufacturing or quality control processes. Furthermore, government customers and their contractors can generally cancel orders for our products for convenience or decline to exercise previously disclosed contract options. Even under firm orders with government customers, funding must usually be appropriated in the budget process in order for the government to complete the contract. The cancellation of or failure to fund orders for our products could substantially reduce our net sales and results of operations. Only a few customers account for a substantial portion of our defense revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our net sales. We derive a significant portion of our defense revenues from a small number of customers, including the U.S. Government. The loss of business from any of these customers could substantially reduce our net sales and results of operations and could seriously harm our business. Sales of TACNAV and our other defense products generally consist of a few large orders, and the delay or cancellation of a single order could substantially reduce our net sales. Unlike our mobile satellite communications products, TACNAV and our other defense products are purchased through orders that can generally range in size from several hundred thousand dollars to more than one million dollars. As a result, the delay or cancellation of a single order could materially reduce our net sales and results of operations. Because our defense products typically have higher direct margins than our mobile satellite communications products, the loss of an order for defense products could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to continue to increase the sale of our fiber optic products for commercial uses. Our fiber optic products have numerous commercial applications where mobile communication, navigation, stabilization and precision pointing are required. For example, our fiber optic gyros have been used in commercial applications such as train location control and track geometry measurement systems, industrial robotics, and autonomous or remotely operated vehicles. We may not be successful in further developing and marketing our fiber optic products for commercial uses, which might limit the overall net sales of these products and limit our profitability accordingly. We depend on others to provide programming for our TracVision products, Internet access for our TracNet products, and telephone, fax and data services for our TracPhone products. Our TracVision products include only the equipment necessary to receive satellite television services; we do not broadcast satellite television programming. Instead, customers must obtain programming from another source. We currently offer marine and land mobile TracVision products compatible with the DIRECTV and DISH Network services in the continental United States, the ExpressVu service in Canada and various other regional services in other parts of the world. Our TracVision A5 currently offers access to only the DIRECTV service in the continental United States. Although DIRECTV is offering its TOTAL CHOICE MOBILE programming package at a price that we think should be attractive to consumers, DIRECTV has no obligation to continue to offer that package at the current price or at all. If customers become dissatisfied with the programming, pricing, service, availability or other aspects of this satellite television services product or if any one or more of these services becomes unavailable for any reason, we could suffer a substantial decline in sales of our TracVision products. The companies that operate these services have no obligation to inform us of technological or other changes, including discontinuation of the service, which could impair the performance of our TracVision products. Our TracPhone and TracNet 3.0 products currently depend on satellite services provided by third parties. We rely on Inmarsat for satellite communications services for our TracPhone products. We rely on Telemar for TracNet 3.0 service in Europe. Our TracNet 100 mobile Internet system will use high-speed EVDO cellular services offered by providers such as Verizon Wireless as well as Microsoft’s MSN TV service. Should EVDO networks become unavailable, our TracNet 100 would be hampered in its ability to provide two-way Internet access. Likewise, if the status of MSN TV were to change, customers would no longer be able to access the Internet via the TV screens in their boats, RVs, and cars, a feature that offers KVH a competitive advantage over other mobile Internet solutions. If any of our vendors were unable to fulfill their obligations, we would need to seek alternate suppliers or solutions. In that case, we may be required to retrofit or upgrade hardware and software as necessary to ensure the continued operation of the affected products. We may incur significant delays and expenses in our efforts to make the necessary changes and those efforts may be unsuccessful. Moreover, we may not be successful in identifying and entering into appropriate agreements with replacement suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, which would impair our ability to offer the affected products. Similarly, we may lose the goodwill of existing customers if any currently installed products cease to work for any extended period. Any such outcome could lead to a substantial reduction in sales. Our mobile satellite communications products depend on the availability of third-party satellites, which face significant operational risks and could fail earlier than their expected useful lives. Our mobile satellite communications products depend on the availability of programming and services broadcast through satellites owned by third parties. The unexpected failure of a satellite could disrupt the availability of programming and services, which could reduce the demand for, or customer satisfaction with, our products. These satellites face significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions that can occur as a result of satellite manufacturing errors, problems with power or control systems and general 15 Table of Contents failures resulting from the harsh space environment. Moreover, each satellite has a limited useful life, and the satellite providers make no guarantees that the planned backup systems and capacity will be sufficient to support these satellite services in the event of a loss or reduction of service. We cannot assure that satellite services compatible with our products will continue to be available or that such services will continue to be offered at reasonable rates. The accuracy or availability of satellite signals may also be limited by ionospheric or other atmospheric conditions, intentional or inadvertent signal interference, or intentional limitations on signal availability imposed by the satellite provider. A reduction in the number of operating satellites on any system, the inoperability of any key satellite or the failure of any key satellite or satellites to provide an accurate or available signal could impair the utility of our products or the growth of current and additional market opportunities. We depend on single manufacturing lines for our products, and any significant disruption in production could impair our ability to deliver our products. We currently manufacture and assemble our products using individual production lines for each product category. We have experienced manufacturing difficulties in the past, and any significant disruption to one of these production lines will require time either to reconfigure and equip an alternative production line or to restore the original line to full capacity. Some of our production processes are complex, and we may be unable to respond rapidly to the loss of the use of any production line. For example, our production process uses some specialized equipment and custom molds that may take time to replace if they malfunction. In that event, shipments would be delayed, which could result in customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Finally, we have only a limited capability to increase our manufacturing capacity in the short term. If short-term demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, our inability to fulfill orders in a timely manner could also lead to customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers, and any disruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products on time or at expected cost. We obtain many key components for our products from third-party suppliers, and in some cases we use a single or a limited number of suppliers. Any interruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products until we identify and qualify a new source of supply, which could take several weeks, months or longer and could increase our costs significantly. In general, we do not have written long-term supply agreements with our suppliers but instead purchase components through purchase orders, which expose us to potential price increases and termination of supply without notice or recourse. We do not generally carry significant inventories of product components, and this could magnify the impact of the loss of a supplier. If we are required to use a new source of materials or components, it could also result in unexpected manufacturing difficulties and could affect product performance and reliability. We may increase the international scope of our operations, which could disrupt our operations. Although we have historically manufactured all of our products in the U.S., in order for us to improve our operating margin performance and overall profitability, we may find it necessary to increase the international scope of our operations. This could include offshore manufacturing and/or the increased sourcing of raw materials from foreign countries. We have only limited experience in foreign manufacturing and we might not be successful in implementing or integrating an extended program. In addition, an increased reliance on foreign manufacturing and/or raw material supply would lengthen our supply chain and increase the risk that a disruption in that supply chain would have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Any failure to maintain and expand our third-party distribution relationships may limit our ability to penetrate markets for mobile satellite communications products. We market and sell our mobile satellite communications products through an international network of independent retailers, chain stores and distributors, as well as to manufacturers of marine vessels and recreational 16 Table of Contents vehicles. If we are unable to maintain or increase the number of our distribution relationships, it could significantly reduce or limit our net sales. In addition, our distribution partners may sell products of other companies, including competing products, and are not required to purchase minimum quantities of our products. Moreover, our distributors may operate on low product margins and could give higher priority to products with higher margins than ours. Our net sales and operating results could decline due to general economic trends or declines in consumer spending. Our operating performance depends significantly on general economic conditions. Net sales of our satellite communications products are largely generated by discretionary consumer spending, and demand for these products could demonstrate slower growth than we anticipate as a result of regional and global economic conditions. Consumer spending tends to decline during recessionary periods and may decline at other times. Consumers may choose not to purchase our mobile satellite communications products due to a perception that they are luxury items. As global and regional economic conditions change, including the general level of interest rates, rising oil prices and demand for durable consumer products, demand for our products could be adversely affected. If we are unable to improve our existing mobile satellite communications and defense products and develop new, innovative products, our sales and market share may decline. The markets for mobile satellite communications products and defense navigation, guidance and stabilization products are each characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. If we fail to make innovations in our existing products and reduce the costs of our products, our market share may decline. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could render our products obsolete. If our competitors successfully introduce new or enhanced products that eliminate technological advantages our products may have in a certain market or otherwise outperform our products, or are perceived by consumers as doing so, we may be unable to compete successfully in the markets affected by these changes. For example, other companies have either announced their intentions or have begun to offer low-profile in-motion satellite antennas or alternative means for providing mobile entertainment. These products will compete with our TracVision A5 and may offer more attractive performance, pricing and other features. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. We have previously expanded our operations to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth placed a strain on our personnel, management, financial and other resources. If we fail to manage our future growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses and the efficiency of our operations may decline. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: • upgrade, expand or re-size our manufacturing facilities and capacity in a timely manner; • successfully attract, train, motivate and manage a larger number of employees for manufacturing, sales and customer support activities; • control higher inventory and working capital requirements; and • improve the efficiencies within our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems, and our procedures and controls. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations. To meet our growth objectives, we must attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational, managerial, and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to 17 Table of Contents achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in net sales. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers and key employees. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Martin Kits van Heyningen, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer. If we lost the services of Mr. Kits van Heyningen, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. We also depend on the ability of our other executive officers and members of senior management to work effectively as a team. None of our senior management or other key personnel is bound by an employment agreement. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or senior management members could impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Competition may limit our ability to sell our mobile communications products and defense products. The mobile satellite communications markets and defense navigation, guidance and stabilization markets in which we participate are very competitive, and we expect this competition to persist and intensify in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, which could impair our ability to sell our products. To remain competitive, we must enhance our existing products and develop new products, and we may have to reduce the prices of our products. Moreover, new competitors may emerge, and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of those product lines. For example, improvements in less expensive wireless and cellular technologies may limit demand for land-based satellite telephone and Internet services. In the defense navigation, guidance and stabilization markets, we compete primarily with Honeywell International Inc., Kearfott Guidance & Navigation Corporation, Leica Microsystems AG, Northrop Grumman Corporation and Smiths Group PLC. In the market for mobile satellite communications products, we compete with a variety of companies. In the land mobile market for satellite TV communications equipment, we compete directly with King Controls, MotoSAT, TracStar Systems, Inc., and Winegard Company. There is also potential competition for sales of satellite TV to the automotive market from RaySat, Audiovox, Winegard, and Delphi. In the marine market for satellite TV communications equipment, we compete with NaviSystem Marine Electronic Systems Srl, Orbit Satellite Television & Radio Network, King Controls, TracStar, Sea Tel, Inc. and Raymarine. In the marine market for telephone, fax, data and Internet communications equipment, we compete with Furuno Electric Co., Ltd., Globalstar LP, Iridium Satellite LLC, Japan Radio Company, Nera ASA, and Thrane & Thrane A/S. In the mobile Internet market, we may compete with such products as single-user EVDO cards for use with individual laptops; EVDO/WiFi hubs such as those manufactured by Kyocera, Junxion, and Top Global; proposed WiMAX services in urban areas; and Internet-via-satellite systems proposed by companies such as RaySat. Moreover, new competitors may surface in the future. Among the factors that may affect our ability to compete in our markets are the following: • many of our primary competitors are well-established companies that could have substantially greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do; • product improvements or price reductions by competitors may weaken customer acceptance of our products; and • our competitors may have lower production costs than we do, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering discounts and other promotions. Our international business operations expose us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our activities abroad and in dealing with multiple regulatory environments. Historically, sales to customers outside the United States and Canada have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales. We have only one foreign sales office, which is located in Denmark, and we otherwise 18 Table of Contents support our international sales from our operations in the United States. Our limited operations in foreign countries may impair our ability to compete successfully in international markets and to meet the service and support needs of our customers in countries where we have no infrastructure. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, which may increase our costs and require significant management attention. These risks include: • technical challenges we may face in adapting our mobile satellite communication products to function with different satellite services and technology in use in various regions around the world, including multiple satellite services in Europe; • satisfaction of international regulatory requirements and procurement of any necessary licenses or permits; • restrictions on the sale of certain defense products to foreign military and government customers; • additional costs and delays associated with obtaining approvals and licenses under applicable export regulations; • increased costs of providing customer support in multiple languages; • more limited protection of our intellectual property; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; • potentially longer sales cycles, which could slow our revenue growth from international sales; • potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • losses arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • economic and political instability in some international markets. If we are unable to maintain adequate product liability insurance, we may have to pay significant monetary damages in a successful product liability claim against us. The development and sale of mobile satellite communication products and defense products entail an inherent risk of product liability. For example, consumers may ignore laws or warnings not to watch satellite television while driving and, as a result, may become involved in serious accidents, for which they may seek to hold us responsible. Product liability insurance is generally expensive for companies such as ours. Accordingly, we maintain only limited product liability insurance coverage for our products. Our current levels of insurance or any insurance we may subsequently obtain may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential claims, such as claims by those involved in accidents caused by drivers watching television. In addition, we may be unable to renew our policies on commercially reasonable terms or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are exposed to product liability claims for which we have insufficient insurance, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Exports of certain defense products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and require a license from the U.S. Department of State prior to shipment. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. Our products that have military or strategic applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process 19 Table of Contents can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in net sales. Our business may suffer if we cannot protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete depends significantly upon our patents, our source code and our other proprietary technology. The steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Our patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights we have under our patents could provide no competitive advantages. Existing trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could increase the likelihood of misappropriation. Furthermore, other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competing technology could seriously harm our competitive position, which could lead to a substantial reduction in net sales. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and it may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us. Pending securities class action lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and certain of our officers are defendants in a class action lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of Rhode Island. The suit asserts claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, as well as claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, on behalf of purchasers of our securities between October 1, 2003 and July 2, 2004. We and certain of our directors and officers are also defendants in a shareholders’ derivative action in the Rhode Island State Superior Court for Providence County. This suit asserts state law claims on our behalf between October 1, 2003 and the present arising from the allegations set forth in the class action complaint in the U.S. District Court described above. We and certain of our directors and officers are also defendants in a shareholders’ derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode Island. This suit asserts federal and state claims on our behalf between October 1, 2003 and the present arising from the same allegations set forth in the class action complaint described above. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation could materially harm our business. Litigation of this nature is expensive and time-consuming and diverts the time and attention of our management. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition. Our industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. We do not generally conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a 20 Table of Contents rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. From time to time we have faced claims by third parties that our products or technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, and we may face similar claims in the future. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are presently a defendant in two lawsuits brought by Electronic Controlled Systems, Inc., d/b/a King Controls, alleging infringement of three of its patents. We are defending ourselves vigorously against these claims, but there can be no assurances that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement, that we will not be enjoined from selling certain of our mobile satellite communications products, or that the suit will not otherwise have a materially adverse effect on our operations or financial performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly net sales and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our net sales and results of operations from one quarter to the next. Our future net sales and results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that our net sales or results of operations in a quarter will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the market price of our common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including: • demand changes for our mobile satellite communications products and defense products; • the timing and size of individual orders from military customers; • our ability to manufacture, test and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our success in winning competitions for orders; • the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • the mix of products we sell; • market and competitive pricing pressures; • general economic climate; and • seasonality of pleasure boat and recreational vehicle usage. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if our net sales decline or do not grow as much as we anticipate, we might be unable to maintain or improve our operating margins. Any failure to achieve anticipated net sales could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. 21 Table of Contents Our tax planning strategy involves assumptions that may cause our annual provision for tax expense or benefit to fluctuate materially. Moreover, our tax planning strategy is based upon our ability to sell our manufacturing and corporate headquarters facility located in Middletown, Rhode Island, as may be necessary. We utilize a tax planning strategy as provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States as a means of supporting the realizable nature of certain of our deferred tax assets. The strategy involves our ability to sell our Middletown, Rhode Island headquarters facility in order to generate taxable income for the sole purpose of utilizing certain of our capitalized tax loss carryforwards before they expire. The determination of taxable income, and therefore supportable deferred tax asset value, is based upon the difference between the property’s estimated fair market value and our tax basis. Accordingly, the estimated net realizable value of our deferred tax asset is highly correlated to property values in and around the Middletown, Rhode Island area and therefore subject to changes in property value and or assumptions used in the valuation process. This fair market value subjectivity may cause us to record significant increases or decreases to our deferred tax assets during the year. The strategy represents an action that we ordinarily would not take, but could take, if necessary, to realize an estimated $3.3 million in U.S. deferred tax assets or the equivalent of approximately $8.5 million in estimated taxable income as of December 31, 2005. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has historically been volatile. From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $27.75 to $6.61. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • changing needs of military customers; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • changes in, or adoptions of, accounting principles; • market conditions in our industries; and • the global macroeconomic and geopolitical environment. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. We are now defending a securities class action lawsuit. This pending litigation has caused us to incur substantial costs and is diverting the time and attention of our management. These adverse consequences may continue until this action is finally resolved. Any similar litigation in the future could have similar consequences. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results. We evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to acquire other businesses as they arise. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from any 22 Table of Contents acquisition. Competition for acquisition opportunities could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, such as: • charges related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw; • diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources; • loss of key acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the assumption of legal liabilities; • amortization of acquired intangible assets; and • potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill. Our charter and by-laws and Delaware law may deter takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that many stockholders may find attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to take some corporate actions, including the election of directors. These provisions relate to: • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock, and determine its terms, without a stockholder vote; • the classification of our board of directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders; • the limitation that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote; • the prohibition against stockholder actions by written consent; • the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 