ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ The Company is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which may impact future results of operations and financial condition. These risks are as follows: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates and may not be sufficient to cover future losses. - --------------------------------- Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have incurred which have not yet been reported to the Company. There is a high level of uncertainty inherent in the evaluation of the required losses and loss adjustment expense reserves for the Company. The long-tailed nature of liability claims and the volatility of jury awards exacerbate that uncertainty. The Company sets loss and loss adjustment expense reserves at each balance sheet date at management's best estimate of the ultimate payments that it anticipates will be made to settle all losses incurred and related loss adjustment expenses incurred as of that date for both reported and unreported losses. The ultimate cost of claims is dependent upon future events, the outcomes of which are affected by many factors. Company claim reserving procedures and settlement philosophy, current and perceived social and economic inflation, current and future court rulings and jury attitudes, improvements in medical technology, and many other economic, scientific, legal, political, and social factors all can have significant effects on the ultimate costs of claims. Changes in Company operations and management philosophy also may cause actual developments to vary from the past. Since the emergence and disposition of claims are subject to uncertainties, the net amounts that will ultimately be paid to settle claims may vary significantly from the estimated amounts provided for in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Any adjustments to reserves are reflected in the operating results of the periods in which they are made. The Company's success depends on its ability to accurately underwrite risks and to charge adequate premiums to policyholders. - -------------------------------------------- The Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations depend in large part on the Company's ability to underwrite and set premiums accurately for the risks it faces. Premium rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses, underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. In order to price its products accurately, the Company must collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulae; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. The Company's ability to undertake these efforts successfully is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: o Availability of sufficient reliable data. o Incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data. o Uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions. o Selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies. o Adoption of successful pricing strategies. o Prediction of policyholder retention (e.g., policy life expectancy). o Unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. o Ongoing changes in the Company's claim settlement practices. o Unexpected inflation. o Social changes, particularly those affecting litigious inclinations. Such risks may result in the Company's pricing being based on outdated, inadequate, or inaccurate data, or inappropriate analyses, assumptions, or methodologies, and may cause the Company to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, the Company could under price risks, which would negatively affect the Company's margins, or it could overprice risks, which could reduce the Company's volume and competitiveness. In either event, the Company's operating results, financial condition, and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 11 Inability to obtain reinsurance or to collect on ceded reinsurance could adversely affect the Company's ability to write new policies. - ------------------------------------------------------------ The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of the Company's reinsurance will increase the risk of loss and could materially adversely affect its business and financial condition. Ceded reinsurance does not discharge the Company's direct obligations under the policies it writes. The Company remains liable to its policyholders even if the Company is unable to make recoveries that it believes it's entitled to under the reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from the reinsurers until claims are paid. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and legislative changes, which may impact the manner in which the company operates its business. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation by the California Department of Insurance. The California Department of Insurance has broad regulatory powers implemented to protect policyholders, not stockholders or other investors. These powers include, among other things, the ability to: o Place limitations on the Company's investments and dividends. o Place limitations on the Company's ability to transact business with its affiliates. o Establish standards of solvency including minimum reserves and capital surplus requirements. o Prescribe the form and content of, and to examine, the Company's financial statements. Federal legislation typically does not directly impact the property and casualty business, but the business can be indirectly affected by changes in federal regulations. This extensive regulation may affect the cost or demand for the Company's products and may limit the ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that the Company might desire to do in order to increase its profitability. A downgrade in the financial strength rating of the insurance company could reduce the amount of business it may be able to write. - ----------------------------------------------------- Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength as an indication of an ability to pay claims. Crusader's financial strength rating has been upgraded by A.M. Best Company from B+ (Good) to B++ (Good), effective January 2, 2007, with a rating outlook of stable. The financial strength rating of A.M. Best is subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agents and are not intended for the protection of investors. Any downgrade in the Company's A.M. Best rating could cause a reduction in the number of policies it writes and could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial position. Intense competition could adversely affect the ability to sell policies at premium rates the Company deem adequate. - --------------------------------------- The Company faces significant competition which, at times, is intense. If the Company is unable to compete effectively its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Competition in the property and casualty marketplace is based on many factors including premiums charged, services provided, financial strength ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payments, reputation, perceived financial strength, and general experience. The Company competes with regional and national insurance companies. Some competitors have greater financial, marketing, and management resources than the Company. Intense competitive pressure on prices can result from the actions of even a single large competitor. The Company uses its own, proprietary premium rates to determine the price for its property and casualty policies. The Company's earnings may be affected by changes in interest rates. - ------------------------------------------------------------------- Investment income is an important component of the Company's revenues and net income. The ability to achieve investment objectives is affected by factors that are beyond the Company's control. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Any significant decline in investment income as a result of falling interest rates or general market conditions would have an adverse effect on net income and, as a result, on the Company's stockholders' equity and policyholders' surplus. 12 The outlook of the Company's investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity investments that are "available-for-sale" fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in the stockholders' equity. The Company's geographic concentration ties its performance to the business, economic, and regulatory conditions in California. - ------------------------------------------------- The Company's insurance business is concentrated in California (100% of gross written premium in 2004 through 2006). Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in the state of California could negatively impact the Company's performance. In addition, California is exposed to severe natural perils, such as earthquakes and fires, along with the possibility of terrorist acts. Accordingly, the Company could suffer losses as a result of catastrophic events. The Company relies on independent insurance agents and brokers. - -------------------------------------------------------------- The failure or inability of independent insurance agencies and brokers to market the Company's insurance programs successfully could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Independent brokers are not obligated to promote the Company's insurance programs and may sell competitors' insurance programs. The Company's business largely depends on the marketing efforts of independent brokers and on the Company's ability to offer insurance programs and services that meet the requirements of those brokers' customers. Litigation may have an adverse effect on the Company's business. - --------------------------------------------------------------- The insurance industry is the target of an increasing number of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. This litigation is based on a variety of issues including insurance and claim settlement practices. Although the Company has not been the target of any specific class action lawsuits, it is possible that a suit of this type could have a negative impact on the Company's business. The Company relies on its information technology systems to manage many aspects of its business, and any failure of these systems to function properly or any interruption in their operation could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. - ----------------------------------------------------------------- The Company depends on the accuracy, reliability, and proper functioning of its information technology systems. The Company relies on these information technology systems to effectively manage many aspects of its business, including underwriting, policy acquisition, claims processing and handling, accounting, reserving and actuarial processes and policies, and to maintain its policyholder data. The failure of hardware or software that supports the Company's information technology systems or the loss of data contained in the systems could disrupt its business and could result in decreased premiums, increased overhead costs, and inaccurate reporting, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for the Company's information technology systems, these systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from events such as: o Earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters. o Terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers. o Power loss. o Unauthorized access. o Computer systems or data network failure. It is possible that a system failure, accident, or security breach could result in a material disruption to the Company's business. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions. To the extent that a critical system fails or is not properly implemented and the failure cannot be corrected in a timely manner, the Company may experience disruptions to the business that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud. - ------------- The Company's disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated and 13 communicated to management and is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. The Company's management believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and the Company cannot ensure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. The ability of the Company to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers, and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to the Company's success. - --------------------------------- The Company must hire and train new employees, and retain current employees to handle its operations. The failure of the Company to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled employees could result in the Company having to slow the growth of its business. In addition, the failure to adequately staff its claims department could result in decreased quality of the Company's claims operations. The Company's success also depends heavily upon the continued contributions of its executive officers, both individually and as a group. The Company's future performance will be substantially dependent on its ability to retain and motivate its management team. The loss of the services of any of the Company's executive officers could prevent the Company from successfully implementing its business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ------------------------- Not applicable. 