ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors described below represent the Corporation’s principal risks. Volatility in purchased feedstock and energy costs impacts UCC’s operating costs and adds variability to earnings. Purchased feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of the Corporation’s total production costs and operating expenses. When these costs increase, the Corporation is not always able to immediately raise selling prices and, ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is greatly dependent on market conditions. Conversely, when these costs decline, selling prices decline as well. As a result, volatility in these costs could negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. Issues involving The Dow Chemical Company, the Corporation’s parent company, could have a liquidity impact on the Corporation. Because Dow is a service provider, material debtor, and the major customer of the Corporation, certain events and situations affecting Dow’s acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company (“Rohm and Haas”), as noted below, could potentially impact sources of liquidity for the Corporation. Dow’s integration of Rohm and Haas, which was acquired on April 1, 2009, could present significant challenges to Dow. The integration is requiring the attention of Dow management and employees, which could lessen time spent on services and administrative functions provided to the Corporation pursuant to negotiated agreements. In addition, Dow’s integration and implementation could result in higher expenses, and/or the use of more cash and other financial resources than Dow had expected. Moreover, if the integration is not completed as planned, it could negatively impact Dow’s financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, Dow issued preferred equity securities, debt securities and common equity securities to partially finance the $15.7 billion acquisition of Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009. This requires Dow to make additional interest and dividend payments and thus may reduce Dow’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or fund capital expenditures or working capital needs. This may also increase Dow’s vulnerability to adverse economic conditions. Dow’s credit rating is currently investment grade. Dow’s long-term and short-tem credit ratings were downgraded by Fitch, Standard and Poor’s, and Moody’s in the first half of 2009. If Dow’s credit-ratings are further downgraded, borrowing costs will increase on certain indebtedness and it could have a negative impact on Dow’s ability to access credit markets and therefore, the Corporation’s liquidity. The value of investments is influenced by economic and market conditions. The economic environment impacts the fair value of pension assets, which could trigger increased future funding requirements of the pension trust. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could continue to negatively impact UCC’s results of operations. The continuing economic downturn in the United States and globally could further reduce demand for the Corporation’s products, resulting in a continued decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on UCC’s results of operations. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. The Corporation is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At December 31, 2009, the Corporation had accrued obligations of $84 million ($67 million at December 31, 2008) for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $21 million ($18 million at December 31, 2008) for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Corporation has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements 5 Table of Contents and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Corporation’s operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. The Corporation is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions. The Corporation is involved in a number of legal proceedings and claims with both private and governmental parties. These cover a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to: product liability; trade regulation; governmental regulatory proceedings; health, safety and environmental matters; employment; patents; contracts; taxes; and commercial disputes. With the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability described below, it is the opinion of the Corporation’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. The Corporation is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. At December 31, 2009, the Corporation’s asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $839 million ($934 million at December 31, 2008) and the Corporation’s receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $84 million ($403 million at December 31, 2008). At December 31, 2009, the Corporation also had receivables of $448 million ($272 million at December 31, 2008) for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs. Management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of the Corporation’s asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. Local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal business operations. Increased concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment could lead to new regulations. Concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and the potential impact on the environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest into additional pressure for more stringent regulatory intervention. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions, the viability of the Corporation’s products, the Corporation’s reputation, the cost to comply with regulations, and the ability to attract and retain employees, which could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. Weather-related matters could impact the Corporation’s results of operations. In 2005 and again in the third quarter of 2008, major hurricanes caused significant disruption in UCC’s operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region and in the supply of certain raw materials which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of UCC’s products. If similar weather-related matters occur in the future, it could negatively affect UCC’s results of operations, due to the Corporation’s substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 