Risk Factors In the course of conducting operations, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the textile business. The following discusses some of the key inherent risk factors that could affect the Company’s business and operations, as well as other risk factors which are particularly relevant to the Company during the current period. Other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report could also adversely affect the Company’s business and operations, and these risk factors should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that may affect the Company. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. See “Item 7. Forward-Looking Statements” for further discussion of forward-looking statements about the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions and uncertain economic outlook could continue to adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility which has negatively affected the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company cannot predict when economic conditions will improve or stabilize. A prolonged period of economic volatility or continued decline could continue to have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate the other risks related to its business. 12 Table of Contents Global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the U.S. and internationally. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition: • The Company’s products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishings, automotive and industrial markets. Slower consumer spending may effect the markets in which the Company participates which may result in reduced demand for its products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. • The Company may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. This could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. Disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits that the Company currently considers safe or liquid. • The failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to the Company under credit instruments could jeopardize its ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. The Company’s ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. • If the Company’s customers experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase its products, this could result in reduced orders for its products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to the Company, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. Financial solvency issues at CIT Group, Inc., (“CIT”), a New York — based commercial lender and the largest factoring company in the U.S., could result in lost sales as certain of the Company’s direct and indirect customers obtain financing from this lender. Factoring, a form of debt financing involving the sale of accounts receivable at a discount, is commonly utilized by textile industry suppliers and apparel manufacturers. • If the Company’s customers experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The significant price volatility of many of the Company’s raw materials and rising energy costs may result in increased production costs, which the Company may not be able to pass on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of the Company’s raw materials and energy costs are derived from petroleum-based chemicals. The prices for petroleum and petroleum-related products and energy costs are volatile and dependent on global supply and demand dynamics including geo-political risks. While the Company enters into raw material supply agreements from time to time, these agreements typically provide index pricing based on quoted feedstock market prices. Therefore, its supply agreements provide only limited protection against price volatility. While the Company has in the past matched cost increases with corresponding product price increases, the Company was not always able to immediately raise product prices, and, ultimately, pass on underlying cost increases to its customers. The Company has in the past lost and expects that it will continue to lose, customers to its competitors as a result of any price increases. In addition, its competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost due to market regulations. Additional raw material and energy cost increases that the Company is not able to fully pass on to customers or the loss of a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents The Company depends upon limited sources for raw materials, and interruptions in supply could increase its costs of production and cause its operations to suffer. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties for certain raw material supplies, such as POY and Chip. Although alternative sources of raw materials exist, the Company may not continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of such materials on acceptable terms, or at all, from other sources. Following the closure of the Company’s Kinston facility, sources of POY from NAFTA and CAFTA qualified suppliers may in the future experience interruptions or limitations in the supply of its raw materials, which would increase its product costs and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These POY suppliers are also at risk with their raw material supply chain. For example, in the Louisiana area in 2005, Hurricane Katrina created shortages in the supply of paraxlyene, a feedstock used in polyester polymer production. As a result, supplies of paraxlyene were reduced, and prices increased. With Hurricane Rita the supply of monoethylene glycol (“MEG”) was reduced, and prices increased as well. Any disruption or curtailment in the supply of any of its raw materials could cause the Company to reduce or cease its production in general or require the Company to increase its pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. The Company is currently implementing various strategic business initiatives, and the success of the Company’s business will depend on its ability to effectively develop and implement these initiatives. The Company is currently implementing various strategic business initiatives. The development and implementation of these initiatives also requires management to divert a portion of its time from day-to-day operations. These expenses and diversions could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and profitability, particularly if the initiatives included in any new endeavor prove to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if the Company is unable to implement an initiative in a timely manner, or if those initiatives turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, the Company’s business and operating results would be adversely affected. The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. The Company has substantial indebtedness. As of June 28, 2009, the Company had a total of $187.1 million of debt outstanding, including $179.2 million outstanding in aggregate principal amount of 2014 notes, $6.9 million outstanding in loans relating to a Brazilian government tax program, and $1.0 million outstanding on a sale leaseback obligation. The Company’s outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, including the following: • its high level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its outstanding notes, including its repurchase obligations; • the restrictions imposed on the operation of its business may hinder its ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities to grow its business; • its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • the Company must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to the Company for operations and other purposes; • its high level of indebtedness could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates may be limited; and • its high level of indebtedness makes the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in its business. 14 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness. Despite its current indebtedness levels, the Company may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with its substantial leverage. The Company and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of its current debt restrict, but do not completely prohibit, the Company from doing so. The Company’s amended revolving credit facility (“Amended Credit Agreement”) permits up to $100 million of borrowings, which the Company can request be increased to $150 million under certain circumstances, with a borrowing base specified in the credit facility as equal to specified percentages of eligible accounts receivable and inventory. In addition, the indenture with respect to the 2014 notes dated May 26, 2006 between the Company and its subsidiary guarantors and U.S. Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the “Indenture”) allows the Company to issue additional notes under certain circumstances and to incur certain other additional secured debt, and allows its foreign subsidiaries to incur additional debt. The Indenture for its 2014 notes does not prevent the Company from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other liabilities are added to its current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. The Company will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness and fund capital expenditures, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under its Amended Credit Agreement. The Company’s ability to make payments on, to refinance its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The business may not generate cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to the Company under its Amended Credit Agreement in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flow or borrow under its Amended Credit Agreement for these purposes, the Company may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital. The Company may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms that are acceptable or at all. The terms of its existing or future debt agreements may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. In addition, without such refinancing, the Company could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in its payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. The Company’s Amended Credit Agreement and the Indenture for its 2014 notes limit its ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from any such sale. Furthermore, the 2014 notes and its Amended Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of its assets. Therefore, the Company may not be able to sell its assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable the Company to meet its debt service obligations. The terms of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent the Company from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. The terms of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on its business. These restrictions will limit or prohibit, among other things, its ability to: • incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • repay subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; • pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase the Company’s stock; 15 Table of Contents • issue capital stock; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • make capital expenditures; and • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from its subsidiaries. In addition, the Company’s Amended Credit Agreement also requires the Company to meet a minimum fixed charge ratio test if borrowing capacity is less than $25 million at any time during the quarter and restricts its ability to make capital expenditures or prepay certain other debt. The Company may not be able to maintain this ratio. These restrictions could limit its ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet its capital needs. The Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to its Amended Credit Agreement if for any reason the Company is unable to meet its requirements or the Company may not be able to refinance its debt on terms that are acceptable, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Indenture for its 2014 notes or its Amended Credit Agreement. An event of default under its debt agreements would permit some of its lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. The Company faces intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign yarn producers and importers of textile and apparel products. The Company’s industry is highly competitive. The Company competes not only against domestic and foreign yarn producers, but also against importers of foreign sourced fabric and apparel into the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business. The Company’s major regional competitors are AKRA, S.A. de C.V., CS Central America, O’Mara, Inc., and NanYa, in the polyester yarn segment and Sapona Manufacturing Company, Inc., McMichael Mills, Inc. and Worldtex, Inc. in the nylon yarn segment. The Company’s major competitors in Brazil are Avanti Industria Comercio Importacao e Exportacao Ltda. and Ledervin Industria e Comercio Ltda. Related to competitive conditions in Brazil, Petrobras Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”), a public oil company controlled by the Brazilian government, announced the construction of a polyester manufacturing complex located in the northeast sector of the country. This new investment in polyester capacity is made by Petrobras through its wholly owned subsidiary, Petrosuape-Companhia Petroquimica de Pernambuco (“Petrosuape”). Petrosuape will produce purified terephthalic acid (“PTA”), polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) resin, polyester chip, POY and textured polyester. Construction of the PTA facility has begun and site preparation for the polymer, spinning and texturing facility has commenced. The planned textured polyester capacity, which is approximately twice the capacity of the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary (“Unifi do Brazil”), is scheduled to start production in July 2010 and may compete directly with Unifi do Brazil. Such significant capacity expansion may negatively affect the utilization rate of the synthetic textile filament market in Brazil, thereby potentially impacting the operating result of Unifi do Brazil. The importation of garments and fabric from lower wage-based countries and overcapacity throughout the world has resulted in lower net sales, gross profits and net income for both its polyester and nylon segments. The primary competitive factors in the textile industry include price, quality, product styling and differentiation, flexibility of production and finishing, delivery time and customer service. The needs of particular customers and the characteristics of particular products determine the relative importance of these various factors. Because the Company, and the supply chain in which the Company operates, do not typically operate on the basis of long-term contracts with textile and apparel customers, these competitive factors could cause the Company’s customers to rapidly shift to other producers. A large number of the Company’s foreign competitors have significant competitive advantages, including lower labor costs, lower raw materials and favorable currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. If any of these advantages increase, the Company’s products could become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result. In addition, while traditionally these foreign competitors have focused on commodity production, they are now increasingly focused on value-added products, where the Company continues 16 Table of Contents to generate higher margins. Competitive pressures may also intensify as a result of the elimination of China safeguard measures and the potential elimination of duties. The Company, and the supply chain in which the Company operates, may therefore not be able to continue to compete effectively with imported foreign-made textile and apparel products, which would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of its net sales. A significant portion of the Company’s net sales is derived from a relatively small number of customers. The Company’s top ten customers constitute approximately 30% of total net sales in fiscal year 2009 with sales to HBI making up approximately 11% of the total net sales. The Company’s supply agreement with HBI expired in April 2009. The Company and HBI have established a framework for a new long-term supply contract that is anticipated to be finalized in the calendar year 2009. However, there can be no assurances that the Company and HBI will finalize a new supply agreement on this timetable or at all. If the HBI supply agreement is not renewed, and the sales to HBI are reduced, the result could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. The Company expects to continue to depend upon its principal customers for a significant portion of its sales, although there can be no assurance that the Company’s principal customers will continue to purchase products and services at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers or a change in their buying patterns could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken the Company’s competitive position dramatically and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. A number of sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products, particularly apparel, hosiery and home furnishings, are subject to intense foreign competition. Other sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products may in the future become subject to more intense foreign competition. There are currently a number of trade regulations and duties in place to protect the U.S. textile industry against competition from low-priced foreign producers, such as China. Changes in such trade regulations and duties may make its products less attractive from a price standpoint than the goods of its competitors or the finished apparel products of a competitor in the supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, net sales and profitability. In addition, increased foreign capacity and imports that compete directly with its products could have a similar effect. Furthermore, one of the Company’s key business strategies is to expand its business within countries that are parties to FTAs with the U.S. Any relaxation of duties or other trade protections with respect to countries that are not parties to those FTAs could therefore decrease the importance of the trade agreements and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. An example of potentially adverse consequences can be found in the CAFTA agreement. A customs ruling has been issued that allows the use of foreign synthetic singles textured sewing thread in the CAFTA region. This ruling allows for increased foreign competition due to the duty-free treatment of CAFTA apparel containing the foreign thread component. Failure to overturn this ruling or correct this drafting error in the FTA could have a further material adverse effect on this business segment. See “Item 1. Business — Trade Regulation” for more information. The proposed Korea FTA is problematic for various sectors of the U.S. textile industry. In contrast to FTA’s in recent years, the Korean FTA is the first FTA since the NAFTA agreement where the country in question has a large, vertically integrated and developed textile sector which exports significant amounts of textile products to the U.S. Duty-free treatment under the proposed agreement could adversely affect the U.S. textile and apparel industries due to the fact that this FTA would give Korea a greater competitive advantage by further reducing the cost of Korean products in the U.S. Korea is already the sixth largest exporter of textile products to the U.S. market and the fourth largest exporter of textile products in the world. Although passage of the agreement does not look likely in 2009, the U.S. textile industry is currently working with the U.S. Trade Office and the new Administration to address concerns with the Korea FTA as it was negotiated under the previous administration. 17 Table of Contents A decline in general economic or political conditions and changes in consumer spending could cause the Company’s sales and profits to decline. The Company’s products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishing, automotive, industrial and other similar end-use markets. Demand for furniture and durable goods, such as automobiles, is often affected significantly by economic conditions. Demand for a number of categories of apparel also tends to be tied to economic cycles. Domestic demand for textile products therefore tends to vary with the business cycles of the U.S. economy as well as changes in global trade flows, and economic and political conditions. Future armed conflicts, terrorist activities, economic and political conditions or natural disasters in the U.S. or abroad and any consequent actions on the part of the U.S. government and others may cause general economic conditions in the U.S. to deteriorate or otherwise reduce U.S. consumer spending. A decline in general economic conditions or consumer confidence may also lead to significant changes to inventory levels and, in turn, replenishment orders placed with suppliers. These changing demands ultimately work their way through the supply chain and could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. Failure to successfully reduce the Company’s production costs may adversely affect its financial results. A significant portion of the Company’s strategy relies upon its ability to successfully rationalize and improve the efficiency of its operations. In particular, the Company’s strategy relies on its ability to reduce its production costs in order to remain competitive. Over the past four years, the Company has consolidated multiple unprofitable businesses and production lines in an effort to match operating rates to the market, reduce overhead and supply costs, focus on optimizing the product mix amongst its reorganized assets, and made significant capital expenditures to more completely automate its production facilities, lessen the dependence on labor and decrease waste. If the Company is not able to continue to successfully implement cost reduction measures, or if these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings that it expects going forward or result in higher than expected costs, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in customer preferences, fashion trends and end-uses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, net sales and profitability and cause inventory build-up if the Company is not able to adapt to such changes. The demand for many of the Company’s products depends upon timely identification of consumer preferences for fabric designs, colors and styles. In the apparel sector, a failure by the Company or its customers to identify fashion trends in time to introduce products and fabric consistent with those trends could reduce its sales and the acceptance of its products by its customers and decrease its profitability as a result of costs associated with failed product introductions and reduced sales. The Company’s nylon segment continues to be adversely affected by changing customer preferences that have reduced demand for sheer hosiery products. In all sectors, changes in customer preferences or specifications may cause shifts away from the products which the Company provides, which can also have an adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. The Company has significant foreign operations and its results of operations may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. The Company has a significant operation in Brazil, an operation in Colombia, a newly formed subsidiary in China, and a joint venture in Israel. The Company serves customers in Canada, Mexico, Israel and various countries in Europe, Central America, South America, South Africa, and Asia. Foreign operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by its domestic operations that can materially affect sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. The risks of international operations include trade barriers, duties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks, required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including tax laws, the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, taxes on distributions or deemed distributions to the Company or any of its U.S. subsidiaries, maintenance of minimum capital requirements and import and export controls. Through its foreign operations, the Company is also exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. Because a significant amount of its costs incurred to generate the revenues of its foreign operations are denominated in local 18 Table of Contents currencies, while the majority of its sales are in U.S. dollars, the Company has in the past been adversely impacted by the appreciation of the local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company has translated its revenues and expenses denominated in local currencies into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during the relevant period and its assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate at the end of the relevant period. Fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates will affect period-to-period comparisons of its reported results. Additionally, the Company operates in countries with foreign exchange controls. These controls may limit its ability to repatriate funds from its international operations and joint ventures or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access cash from these operations. The success of the Company depends on the ability of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to effectively work together to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s strategy, which includes significant international expansion. If it is unable to do so, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company may suffer. In addition, as part of the Company’s strategy of international expansion, there is intense competition for the services of qualified personnel. The failure to retain current key managers or key members of the design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for new operations could be detrimental to the Company’s business. The Company currently does not have any employment agreements with its corporate officers and cannot assure investors that any of these individuals will remain with the Company. The Company currently does not have life insurance policies on any of the members of the senior management team. The sale of a large number of shares held by members of the Company’s Board of Directors could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. As of June 28, 2009, members of Company’s Board of Directors (“Board”) beneficially owned a total of 29.3% of the Company’s common stock. These shares are available for sale, subject to the requirements of the U.S. securities laws. The sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. From time to time the Company is called upon to defend itself against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from the Company’s operations and result in substantial legal fees. Execution of the Company’s strategy will involve a further increase in international operations. Significant international operations involve special risks that could increase expenses, adversely affect operating results and require increased time and attention of the Company’s management. The Company currently has significant operations outside of the U.S. Additionally, the Company may, at some future date, seek to further expand its international operations as part of its business strategy. International operations are subject to a number of risks in addition to those faced by domestic operations, including: • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of the Company’s intellectual property rights; 19 Table of Contents • economic instability in certain countries or regions resulting in higher interest rates and inflation, which could make the Company’s products more expensive in those countries or raise the Company’s cost of operations in those countries • changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad; • the possibility of the nationalization of foreign assets; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if the Company does not invest sufficiently in its international operations; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • restrictions on transfers of funds, foreign customs and tariffs and other unexpected regulatory changes; • difficulties in staffing, managing and operating international operations; • obtaining project financing from third parties, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; and • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which the Company will have facilities. Foreign operations also subject the Company to numerous additional laws and regulations affecting its business, such as those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, antitrust and competition, environmental protection, consumer protection, import/export and anticorruption, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). The FCPA prohibits giving anything of value intended to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although the Company has put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, its employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate any of these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject the Company to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. A portion of the Company’s transactions outside of the U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company expects that it will continue to purchase a portion of its raw materials from foreign suppliers in foreign currencies, and incur other expenses in those currencies. As a result, future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Although the Company may enter into hedging transactions, hedging foreign currency transaction exposures is complex and subject to uncertainty. The Company may be negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of total sales. Financial statements of certain of the Company’s foreign operations are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency while certain other financial statements of these foreign operations will be prepared using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Translation of financial statements of foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the local currency as the functional currency occurs using the exchange rate as of the date of the balance sheet for balance sheet accounts and at a weighted average exchange rate for results of operations. The Company’s consolidated balance sheet and results of operations may be negatively impacted by changes in the exchange rates as of the applicable date of translation. For instance, a stronger U.S. dollar at an applicable date of translation will lead to less favorable results after the applicable translation than a weaker U.S. dollar at that date. The Company’s business could be negatively impacted by the financial condition of its customers. The U.S. textile and apparel industry faces many challenges. Overcapacity, volatility in raw material pricing and intense pricing pressures have led to the closure of many domestic textile and apparel plants. Continued negative industry trends may result in the deteriorating financial condition of its customers. Certain of the Company’s customers are experiencing financial difficulties. The loss of any significant portion of its sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse impact on its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, any receivable balances related to its customers would be at risk in the event of their bankruptcy. 20 Table of Contents As one of the many participants in the U.S. and regional textile and apparel supply chain, the Company’s business and competitive position are directly impacted by the business and financial condition of the other participants across the supply chain in which it operates, including other regional yarn manufacturers, knitters and weavers. If other supply chain participants are unable to access capital, fund their operations and make required technological and other investments in their businesses or experience diminished demand for their products, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to implement future technological advances in the textile industry or fund capital expenditure requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and net sales. The Company’s operating results depend to a significant extent on its ability to continue to introduce innovative products and applications and to continue to develop its production processes to be a competitive producer. Accordingly, to maintain its competitive position and its revenue base, the Company must continually modernize its manufacturing processes, plants and equipment. To this end, the Company has made significant investments in its manufacturing infrastructure over the past fifteen years and does not currently anticipate any significant additional capital expenditures to replace or expand its production facilities over the next five years. Accordingly, the Company expects its capital requirements in the near term will be used primarily to maintain its manufacturing operations. Future technological advances in the textile industry may result in an increase in the efficiency of existing manufacturing and distribution systems or the innovation of new products and the Company may not be able to adapt to such technological changes or offer such products on a timely basis if it does not incur significant capital expenditures for expansion purposes. Existing, proposed or yet undeveloped technologies may render its technology less profitable or less viable, and the Company may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. To the extent sources of funds are insufficient to meet its ongoing capital improvement requirements, the Company would need to seek alternative sources of financing or curtail or delay capital spending plans. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary financing when needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company is unable to predict which of the many possible future products and services will meet the evolving industry standards and consumer demands. If the Company fails to make the capital improvements necessary to continue the modernization of its manufacturing operations and reduction of its costs, its competitive position may suffer, and its net sales may decline. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of the Company’s facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair its production capability. Each of its facilities contains complex and sophisticated machines that are used in its manufacturing process. Disruptions at any of its facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of its machines; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of its facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has made and may continue to make investments in entities that it does not control. The Company has established joint ventures and made minority interest investments designed to increase its vertical integration, increase efficiencies in its procurement, manufacturing processes, marketing and distribution in the U.S. and other markets. The Company’s principal joint ventures and minority investments include UNF and PAL. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Joint Ventures and Other Equity Investments” for a further discussion. The Company’s inability to control entities in which it invests may affect its ability to receive distributions from those entities or to fully implement its business plan. The incurrence of debt or entry into other agreements by an entity not under its control may result in 21 Table of Contents restrictions or prohibitions on that entity’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions. Even where these entities are not restricted by contract or by law from making distributions, the Company may not be able to influence the occurrence or timing of such distributions. In addition, if any of the other investors in these entities fails to observe its commitments, that entity may not be able to operate according to its business plan or the Company may be required to increase its level of commitment. If any of these events were to occur, its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Because the Company does not own a majority or maintain voting control of these entities, the Company does not have the ability to control their policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control these entities or partners may differ from the Company’s, and they may cause such entities to take actions which are not in its best interest. If the Company is unable to maintain its relationships with its partners in these entities, the Company could lose its ability to operate in these areas which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could adversely affect its business. The Company has expanded its business partly through acquisitions and may continue to make selective acquisitions. The Company’s acquisition strategy is dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining financing on acceptable terms, and its ability to comply with the restrictions contained in its debt agreements. Acquisitions may divert a significant amount of management’s time away from the operation of its business. Future acquisitions may also have an adverse effect on its operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following their completion while the Company integrates the operations of the acquired business. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could have a material adverse effect on business and financial results, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies and the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired companies. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by its existing operations, or otherwise performs as expected. While the Company has experience in identifying and integrating acquisitions, the Company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain the capital necessary to pursue its acquisition strategy or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all. Even if the Company successfully completes an acquisition, it may not be able to integrate it into its business satisfactorily or at all. Increases of illegal transshipment of textile and apparel goods into the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. According to industry experts and trade associations, illegal transshipments of apparel products into the U.S. continue to negatively impact the textile market. Illegal transshipment involves circumventing quotas by falsely claiming that textiles and apparel are a product of a particular country of origin or include yarn of a particular country of origin to avoid paying higher duties or to receive benefits from regional FTAs, such as NAFTA and CAFTA. If illegal transshipment is not monitored and enforcement is not effective, these shipments could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to many environmental and safety regulations that may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, the protection of the environment and the use or cleanup of hazardous substances and wastes. The Company may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages and criminal or civil sanctions, or experience interruptions in its operations for actual or alleged violations of or compliance requirements arising under environmental laws, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s operations could result in violations of environmental laws, including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment. In the event of a catastrophic incident, the Company could incur material costs. In addition, the Company could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. For example, on September 30, 2004, the Company completed its acquisition of the polyester filament manufacturing assets located at Kinston from INVISTA. The land for the Kinston site was leased 22 Table of Contents pursuant to a 99 year Ground Lease with DuPont. Since 1993, DuPont has been investigating and cleaning up the Kinston site under the supervision of the EPA and DENR pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Corrective Action program. The Corrective Action program requires DuPont to identify all potential AOCs, assess the extent of containment at the identified AOCs and clean it up to comply with applicable regulatory standards. Effective March 20, 2008, the Company entered into a Lease Termination Agreement associated with conveyance of certain assets at Kinston to DuPont. This agreement terminated the Ground Lease and relieved the Company of any future responsibility for environmental remediation, other than participation with DuPont, if so called upon, with regard to the Company’s period of operation of the Kinston site. However, the Company continues to own a satellite service facility acquired in the INVISTA transaction that has contamination from DuPont’s operations and is monitored by DENR. This site has been remediated by DuPont and DuPont has received authority from DENR to discontinue remediation, other than natural attenuation. DuPont’s duty to monitor and report to DENR with respect to this site will be transferred to the Company in the future, at which time DuPont must pay the Company for seven years of monitoring and reporting costs and the Company will assume responsibility for any future remediation and monitoring of the site. At this time, the Company has no basis to determine if and when it will have any responsibility or obligation with respect to the AOCs or the extent of any potential liability for the same. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Environmental Liabilities.” Furthermore, the Company may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from its properties or at off-site locations where the Company disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated the purchase of its businesses. If significant previously unknown contamination is discovered, existing laws or their enforcement change or its indemnities do not cover the costs of investigation and remediation, then such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Health and safety regulation costs could increase. The Company’s operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and comparable statutes in foreign jurisdictions where the Company operates. The Company believes that it employs appropriate precautions to protect its employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at its facilities. However, claims that may be asserted against the Company for work-related illnesses or injury, and changes in occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates could increase its operating costs. The Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these health and safety laws and regulations. Accordingly, the Company may become involved in future litigation or other proceedings or be found to be responsible or liable in any litigation or proceedings, and such costs may be material to the Company. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by adverse employee relations. The Company employs approximately 2,500 employees, approximately 2,000 of which are domestic employees and approximately 500 of which are foreign employees. While employees of its foreign operations are generally unionized, none of its domestic employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements. The failure to renew collective bargaining agreements with employees of the Company’s foreign operations and other labor relations issues, including union organizing activities, could result in an increase in costs or lead to a strike, work stoppage or slow down. Such labor issues and unrest by its employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Under Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the Company is required to assess the impairment of the Company’s long-lived assets, such as plant and equipment, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. When the Company determines that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more impairment indicators, the Company then measures any impairment based on a projected discounted 23 Table of Contents cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in its current business model. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, any such impairment charges will be recorded as operating losses. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of impairment charges. In addition, the Company evaluates the net values assigned to various equity investments it holds, such as its investment in PAL and UNF, in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock” (“APB 18”). APB 18 requires that a loss in value of an investment, which is other than a temporary decline, should be recognized as an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses will be recorded as operating losses. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Joint Ventures and Other Equity Investments” for more information regarding the Company’s equity investments. Any operating losses resulting from impairment charges under SFAS No. 144 or APB 18 could have an adverse effect on its operating results and therefore the market price of its securities, including its common stock. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, licenses, confidentiality and other agreements to protect its intellectual property rights. However, this protection may not be fully adequate as its intellectual property rights may be challenged or invalidated, an infringement suit by the Company against a third party may not be successful and/or third parties could design around its technology or adopt trademarks similar to its own. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which its products are manufactured and sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Although the Company routinely enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, independent contractors and current and potential strategic and joint venture partners, among others, such agreements may be breached, and the Company could be harmed by unauthorized use or disclosure of its confidential information. Further, the Company licenses trademarks from third parties, and these agreements may terminate or become subject to litigation. Its failure to protect its intellectual property could materially and adversely affect its competitive position, reduce revenue or otherwise harm its business. The Company may also be accused of infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of its personnel. Should the Company be found liable for infringement, the Company may be required to enter into licensing arrangements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or pay damages and cease selling certain products or using certain product names or technology. The Company’s failure to prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect its competitive position, reduce revenue or otherwise harm its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 