Item 1A. Risk Factors In the course of conducting operations, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to its business. The following discusses some of the key inherent risk factors that could affect the Company’s business and operations, as well as other risk factors which are particularly relevant to the Company. Other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report could also adversely affect the Company’s business and operations, and these risk factors should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that may affect the Company. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements about the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 9 The Company faces intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign yarn producers and importers of textile and apparel products. The Company competes not only against domestic and foreign yarn producers, but also against importers of foreign sourced fabric and apparel into the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business. The Company anticipates that competitor expansions or new competition within these regions may lead to reduced industry utilization rates that could result in reduced gross profit margins for the Company’s products, which may materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The primary competitive factors in the textile industry include price, quality, product styling and differentiation, flexibility of production and finishing, delivery time and customer service. The needs of particular customers and the characteristics of particular products determine the relative importance of these various factors. Because the Company, and the supply chains in which the Company operates, do not typically operate on the basis of long-term contracts with textile and apparel customers, these competitive factors could cause the Company’s customers to rapidly shift to other producers. A large number of the Company’s foreign competitors have significant competitive advantages, including lower labor costs, lower raw materials, government subsidies, and favorable currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. If any of these advantages increase, the Company’s products could become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result. In addition, while traditionally these foreign competitors have focused on commodity production, they are now increasingly focused on value-added products, where the Company continues to generate higher margins. The Company, and the supply chains in which the Company operates, may not be able to continue to compete effectively with imported foreign-made textile and apparel products, which would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In Brazil, Petrosuape-Companhia Petroquimica de Pernambuco (“Petrosuape”), a subsidiary of Petrobras Petroleo Brasileiro S.A., a public oil company controlled by the Brazilian government, is constructing a polyester manufacturing complex located in the northeast sector of the country. Petrosuape will produce PTA, polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) resin, POY and textured polyester. Once fully operational, the textured polyester operations of Petrosuape will most likely be a significant competitor as the textured polyester operations of Petrosuape are expected to have approximately twice the capacity of the Company’s subsidiary Unifi do Brasil. Petrosuape’s textured polyester operation started limited production in July 2010 and is expected to be in full commercial production by late 2014. Such significant capacity expansion may negatively affect the utilization rate of the synthetic textile filament market in Brazil, thereby negatively impacting the operating results of Unifi do Brasil. An increase of illegal transshipments of textile and apparel goods into the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. According to industry experts and trade associations, there has been a significant amount of illegal transshipments of apparel products into the U.S. and such illegal transshipments continue to negatively impact the U.S. textile market. Illegal transshipment involves circumventing duties by falsely claiming that textiles and apparel are a product of a particular country of origin or include yarn of a particular country of origin to avoid paying higher duties or to receive benefits from regional free trade agreements, such as NAFTA and CAFTA. If illegal transshipments are not monitored and enforcement is not effective, these shipments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As product demand flow shifts from a region or within a region the Company could lose its cost competitiveness due to the location of its assets. The Company’s Polyester segment primarily manufactures its products in the U.S. and El Salvador. The Company’s Nylon segment primarily manufactures its products in the U.S. and Colombia. The Company’s International segment primarily manufactures its products in Brazil and has a sales office in China. As product demand flow shifts from specific regions or within the regions in which the Company does business, it could lose its cost competitiveness due to the location of its assets. The Company’s operations may incur higher manufacturing, transportation and/or raw material costs in its present operating locations than it could achieve should its operations be located in these new product demand centers. This could adversely affect the competitiveness of the Company’s operations and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken the Company’s competitive position dramatically and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A number of sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products, particularly apparel, hosiery and home furnishings, are subject to intense foreign competition. Other sectors of the textile industry in which the Company sells its products may in the future become subject to more intense foreign competition. There are currently a number of trade regulations and duties in place to protect the U.S. textile industry against competition from low-priced foreign producers, such as those in China and Vietnam. Changes in such trade regulations and duties may make the Company’s products less attractive from a price standpoint than the goods of its competitors or the finished apparel products of a competitor in the supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, increased foreign capacity and imports that compete directly with the Company’s products could have a similar effect. Furthermore, one of the Company’s key business strategies is to expand the Company’s business within countries that are parties to free trade agreements with the U.S. Any relaxation of duties or other trade protections with respect to countries that are not parties to those free trade agreements could therefore decrease the importance of the trade agreements and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 During 2012, the U.S. government has engaged in numerous rounds of negotiations to forge a new TransPacific Partnership Agreement (“TPP”). Countries currently participating in the TPP negotiations include Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam, with Mexico and Canada recently announcing their intention to join TPP. Immediate duty-free treatment or the lack of a yarn forward rule of origin in the final TPP could adversely affect the U.S. textile and apparel industries and Western Hemisphere supply chains. In addition, increased transshipments and the lack of strong customs enforcement could further reduce the cost of foreign made products in the U.S. and result in a TPP that could adversely affect the competitiveness of the Company’s products. The Company will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness, fund capital expenditures and strategic initiatives, and continue to execute its deleveraging strategy, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under its $150,000 senior secured credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) and a secured term loan in the initial aggregate principal amount of $30,000 (“Term B Loan”). The ABL Facility consists of a $100,000 revolving credit facility (the “ABL Revolver”) and a $50,000 term loan (“ABL Term Loan”). The Company’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and its strategic initiatives, as well as to execute its strategy to further reduce its outstanding indebtedness, will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The business may not generate cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to the Company in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flow or borrowings, the Company may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay strategic initiatives or the planned reduction of its outstanding indebtedness, or seek to raise additional capital. The Company may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms that are acceptable or at all. The terms of its existing or future debt agreements may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flows or to achieve any of these alternatives could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. For additional information regarding the ABL Facility and Term B Loan, see “Footnote 12. Long-Term Debt” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition or restrict its ability to pursue certain business opportunities and take certain action. The Company currently maintains, and plans to maintain, outstanding balances under its ABL Facility and Term B Loan. The terms of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company. These restrictions could limit or prohibit, among other things, its ability to: · incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock; · repay subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; · pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase the Company’s stock; · issue certain capital stock; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · create liens; · sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; · enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; and · restrict dividends, distributions, loans or other payments from its subsidiaries. These restrictions, in turn, could have important consequences to the Company’s operations, including: · the restrictions imposed on the operation of its business may hinder its ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities to grow its business; · the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · the Company must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to the Company for operations and other purposes; · the Company’s high level of indebtedness could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that may have proportionately less debt; · it may be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under its ABL Facility and Term B Loan, are at variable rates of interest; · its cost of borrowing may increase; · its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates may be limited; and · its high level of indebtedness makes the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in its business. 11 Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness. The Company’s deleveraging strategy could result in the Company maintaining balances outstanding under its ABL Facility and decrease the Company’s excess borrowing availability, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under its debt agreements. On an ongoing basis, the Company anticipates utilizing its liquidity to continue to reduce borrowings under its ABL Facility and Term B Loan. The Company expects to maintain a continuous balance outstanding under the ABL Facility and to hedge a substantial amount of the interest rate risk in order to ensure its interest savings as it executes its deleveraging strategy. The Company’s ABL Facility and Term B Loan require the Company to meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio test if excess availability under the ABL Revolver falls below the greater of $10,000 or 15% of maximum availability. The execution of the Company’s May 2012 debt refinancing and the continuation of its deleveraging strategy may result in the Company maintaining reduced levels of excess availability under the ABL Facility, but the Company does not expect that the amount of borrowing will be to an extent that the fixed charge coverage ratio test applies. If the Company’s availability under the ABL Revolver falls below the greater of $10,000 or 15% of maximum availability, it may not be able to maintain the required fixed charge coverage ratio. Additionally, the ABL Facility restricts the Company’s ability to make certain distributions and investments should its borrowing capacity fall below certain thresholds. These restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet its capital needs. The Company may not be granted waivers or amendments to its ABL Facility (or Term B Loan) if for any reason the Company is unable to meet its requirements. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the ABL Facility and Term B Loan. An event of default under its debt agreements would permit some of its lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under its ABL Facility or Term B Loan would permit the Company’s lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the ABL Facility. Furthermore, if the Company was unable to repay the amounts due and payable under its ABL Facility or Term B Loan, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and force the Company into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event its lenders accelerate the repayment of its borrowings, the Company and its guarantor subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may be: · limited in how it conducts its business; · unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or · unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The significant price volatility of many of the Company’s raw materials and rising energy costs may result in increased production costs, which the Company may not be able to pass on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of the Company’s raw materials and energy costs are derived from petroleum-based chemicals. The prices for petroleum and petroleum-related products and energy costs are volatile and dependent on global supply and demand dynamics, including geo-political risks. Additionally, inflation can have a long-term impact as increasing costs of materials, labor and other costs such as utilities and fuel may impact the Company’s ability to maintain satisfactory margins. While the Company enters into raw material supply agreements from time to time, these agreements typically provide index pricing based on quoted feedstock market prices. Therefore, supply agreements provide only limited protection against price volatility. While the Company has at times in the past matched cost increases with corresponding product price increases, the Company has not always been able to immediately raise product prices, and, ultimately, pass on underlying cost increases to its customers. The Company has in the past lost and expects that it may continue to lose, customers to its competitors as a result of price increases. In addition, its competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost due to market regulations that favor local producers, and certain other market regulations that favor the Company over other producers may be amended or repealed. Additional raw material and energy cost increases as well as increases due to inflation that the Company is not able to fully pass on to customers or the loss of a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company depends upon limited sources for raw materials, and interruptions in supply could increase its costs of production and cause its operations to suffer. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties for certain raw material supplies, such as POY and Chip. Although alternative sources of raw materials exist, the Company may not continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of such materials on acceptable terms, or at all, from other sources. The Company is dependent on NAFTA and CAFTA qualified suppliers of POY which in the future may experience interruptions or limitations in the supply of its raw materials, which would increase its product costs and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These POY suppliers are also at risk with their raw material supply chains. Any disruption or curtailment in the supply of any of its raw materials could cause the Company to reduce or cease its production in general or require the Company to increase its pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. 12 The Company is currently implementing various strategic business initiatives, and the success of the Company’s business will depend on its ability to effectively develop and implement these initiatives. The Company is currently developing and implementing various strategic business initiatives to improve the Company’s competitive advantage and profitability and enhance shareholder value. These initiatives include the Company’s deleveraging strategy, expanding branded PVA yarns and increasing the market penetration of REPREVE® product offerings. The development and implementation of these initiatives requires financial and management commitments outside of day-to-day operations. These commitments could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and profitability, particularly if the initiatives prove to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if the Company is unable to implement an initiative in a timely manner, or if those initiatives turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Failure to modernize the Company’s facilities and fund capital expenditure requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and net sales. The Company’s operating results depend to a significant extent on its ability to continue to introduce innovative products and applications and to continue to develop its production processes to be a competitive producer. Accordingly, to maintain its competitive position and its revenue base, the Company must continually modernize its manufacturing processes, plants and equipment. To the extent sources of funds are insufficient to meet its ongoing capital improvement requirements, the Company would need to seek alternative sources of financing or curtail or delay capital spending plans. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary financing when needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company fails to make future capital improvements necessary to continue the modernization of its manufacturing operations and the reduction of its costs, its competitive position may suffer, and its net sales may decline. A decline in general economic or political conditions and changes in consumer spending could cause the Company’s sales and profits to decline. The Company’s products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishing, automotive, industrial and other similar end-use markets. Demand for furniture and durable goods, such as automobiles, is often affected significantly by economic conditions. Demand for a number of categories of apparel also tends to be tied to economic cycles and customer preference. Domestic demand for textile products therefore tends to vary with the business cycles of the U.S. economy, as well as changes in global trade flows, and economic and political conditions. The Company has significant foreign operations and its results of operations may be adversely affected by the risks associated with doing business in foreign locations. The Company has operations in Brazil, China, Colombia and El Salvador and participates in a joint venture in Israel. The Company serves customers in Canada, Mexico, Israel and various countries in Europe, Central America, South America, Africa, and Asia. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to certain political, tax, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by its domestic operations that can materially impact the Company’s supply chains, or other aspects of its foreign operations. The risks of international operations include trade barriers, duties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political unrest, general economic risks, required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including tax laws, the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, taxes on distributions or deemed distributions to the Company or any of its U.S. subsidiaries, maintenance of minimum capital requirements and import and export controls. If the Company is unable to react favorably to any of these changing conditions, the Company’s results of operations and business could be adversely affected. Through its foreign operations, the Company is also exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will impact period-to-period comparisons of its reported results. Additionally, the Company operates in countries with foreign exchange controls. These controls may limit its ability to repatriate funds from its international operations and joint ventures or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access cash from these operations. As a result of recent legislation in Brazil, Unifi do Brasil is expected to lose some or all economic incentives related to the purchase of imported yarn. If Unifi do Brasil is unable to make up for the loss of these incentives through increases in its local manufacturing business, price increases and/or efficiency gains, this could have a material adverse effect on Unifi do Brasil’s and/or the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The success of the Company depends on the ability of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to effectively work together to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s strategies. The Company currently does not have any employment agreements with its corporate officers and cannot assure investors that any of these individuals will remain with the Company. The Company currently does not have life insurance policies on any of the members of the senior management team. The failure to retain current key managers or key members of the design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for its operations could be detrimental to the Company’s operations and ability to execute its strategic business initiatives. 13 Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of the Company’s facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s manufacturing processes could be affected by operational problems that could impair its production capability. Disruptions at any of its facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of its equipment; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of its facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Economic Adjustment Assistance to Users of Upland Cotton may be discontinued, which could adversely affect the Parkdale America LLC joint venture and thereby the Company’s investment income and cash flows. One of the Company’s joint ventures, Parkdale America, LLC (“PAL”), receives economic adjustment payments (“EAP”) from the Commodity Credit Corporation under the Economic Assistance program to Users of Upland Cotton, Subpart C of the 2008 Farm Bill. The economic assistance received under this program must be used to acquire, construct, install, modernize, develop, convert or expand land, plant, buildings, equipment, or machinery directly attributable to the purpose of manufacturing upland cotton into eligible cotton products in the U.S. Should PAL no longer meet the criteria to receive economic assistance under the program or should the program be discontinued, PAL’s business could be significantly impacted. The Company relies on accurate financial reporting information from PAL, an entity that it does not control. Errors in PAL’s financial reporting could be material to the Company and cause it to have to restate past financial statements. The Company has ownership interests in PAL, which is an equity method investee that it does not control. The Company relies on accurate financial reporting information from PAL for preparation of its quarterly and annual financial statements. Errors in the financial reporting information received by the Company from PAL could be material to the Company and require it to have to restate past financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such restatements, if they occur could have a material adverse effect on the Company or the market price of its securities. The Company’s future success will depend in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights, and the Company’s inability to enforce these rights could cause it to lose sales and any competitive advantage it has. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to protect and preserve its rights in the trademarks and other intellectual property it owns or licenses, including its proprietary know-how, methods and processes and intellectual property related to its REPREVE® brand. The Company relies on the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and other countries, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect its intellectual property rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties, employees or contractors from using its intellectual property without authorization, breaching any nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements with it, or independently developing technology that is similar to the Company’s property. The use of the Company’s intellectual property by others without authorization may reduce any competitive advantage that it has developed, cause it to lose sales or otherwise harm its business. The Company has made and may continue to make investments in entities that it does not control. The Company has established joint ventures and made minority interest investments designed, among other things, to increase its vertical integration, increase efficiencies in its raw material procurement, manufacturing processes, marketing and distribution in the U.S. and other markets. The Company’s inability to control entities in which it invests may affect its ability to receive distributions from those entities or to fully implement its business plan. The incurrence of debt or entry into other agreements by an entity not under its control may result in restrictions or prohibitions on that entity’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions. Even where these entities are not restricted by contract or by law from making distributions, the Company may not be able to influence the occurrence or timing of such distributions. In addition, if any of the other investors in these entities fails to observe its commitments, that entity may not be able to operate according to its business plan or the Company may be required to increase its level of commitment. If any of these events were to occur, its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Because the Company does not own a majority or maintain voting control of these entities, the Company does not have the ability to control their policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control these entities or partners may differ from the Company’s, and they may cause such entities to take actions which are not in the Company’s best interest. If the Company is unable to maintain its relationships with its partners in these entities, the Company could lose its ability to operate in these areas which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a description of the name, age, position and offices held, and the period served in such position or offices for each of the executive officers of the Company. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer WILLIAM L. JASPER — Age: 59 – Mr. Jasper was appointed Chairman of the Board in February 2011 and has served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Jasper joined the Company in September 2004, was later appointed as the General Manager of the Polyester Division, and in April 2006 was promoted to Vice President of Sales. From September 2007 to February 2011, he was also President of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he was the Director of INVISTA’s Dacron® polyester filament business. Before working at INVISTA, Mr. Jasper held various management positions in operations, technology, sales and business for DuPont since 1980. He has been a member of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) since September 2007 and is Chairman of the Board’s Executive Committee. President and Chief Operating Officer R. ROGER BERRIER — Age: 43 – Mr. Berrier was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2011. Mr. Berrier had been the Executive Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Asian Operations of the Company since September 2007. Mr. Berrier had been the Vice President of Commercial Operations since April 2006 and the Commercial Operations Manager responsible for corporate product development, marketing and brand sales management from April 2004 to April 2006. Mr. Berrier joined the Company in 1991 and has held various management positions within operations, including international operations, machinery technology, research and development and quality control. He has been a member of the Board since September 2007 and is a member of the Board’s Executive Committee. Vice Presidents RONALD L. SMITH — Age: 44 – Mr. Smith has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. He was appointed Vice President of Finance and Treasurer in September 2007. Mr. Smith held the position of Treasurer and had additional responsibility for Investor Relations from May 2005 to October 2007 and was the Vice President of Finance, Unifi Kinston, LLC from September 2004 to April 2005. Mr. Smith joined the Company in 1994 and has held positions as Controller, Chief Accounting Officer and Director of Business Development and Corporate Strategy. THOMAS H. CAUDLE, JR. — Age: 60 – Mr. Caudle has been the Vice President of Manufacturing since October 2006. He was the Vice President of Global Operations of the Company from April 2003 until October 2006. Mr. Caudle had been Senior Vice President in charge of manufacturing for the Company since July 2000 and Vice President of Manufacturing Services of the Company since January 1999. Mr. Caudle has been an employee of the Company since 1982. CHARLES F. MCCOY— Age: 48 – Mr. McCoy has been the Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of the Company since October 2000, the Corporate Compliance Officer since 2002, the Corporate Governance Officer of the Company since 2004, and Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. Mr. McCoy has been an employee of the Company since January 2000, when he joined the Company as Corporate Secretary and General Counsel. Each of the executive officers was elected by the Company’s Board at the Annual Meeting of the Board held on October 26, 2011. Each executive officer was elected to serve until the next Annual Meeting of the Board or until his successor was elected and qualified. No executive officer has a family relationship as close as first cousin with any other executive officer or director. 