Risk Factors." PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Affinity Technology Group, Inc. (the "Company") was formed to develop and market technologies that enable financial institutions and other businesses to provide consumer financial services electronically with reduced or no human intervention. Products and services previously offered by the Company include its DeciSys/RT(R) loan processing system, which automated the processing and consummation of consumer financial services transactions; the Affinity Automated Loan Machine (the ALM), which allowed an applicant to apply for and, if approved, obtain a loan in as little as ten minutes; the Mortgage ALM, which allowed an applicant to apply for a mortgage loan; E-xpertLender(R), which permitted a financial institution to make automated lending decisions through its call centers and branches; iDEAL, which permitted automobile lenders to make automobile lending decisions for loan applications originated at automobile dealers; and rtDS, which permitted lenders to deliver credit decisions to applicants over the Internet. Due to capital constraints, the Company has suspended all efforts to further develop, market and operate these products and services. The Company's last processing contract terminated in late 2002, and the Company has no plans in the near term to engage in further sales or other activities related to its products or services, other than to attempt to license certain of the patents that it owns. Currently, the Company's business activities consist exclusively of attempting to enter into license agreements with third parties to license the Company's rights under certain of its patents. In conjunction with its product development activities, the Company applied for and obtained three patents. The Company has been granted two patents covering its fully-automated loan processing systems (U. S. Patents No. 5,870,721 and 5,940,811). In August 2000, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued to the Company a patent covering the fully-automated establishment of a financial account, including credit accounts (U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007). In addition, in 1997 the Company acquired a patent that covers the automated processing of an insurance binder through a kiosk (U. S. Patent No. 5,537,315). Both of the Company's patents covering fully automated loan processing systems have been subject to reexamination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the "PTO") as a result of challenges to such patents by third parties. On January 28, 2003, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate (U. S. Patent No. 5,870,721 C1) from the PTO which formally concluded the reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 5,870,721. On December 20, 2005, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate (U.S. Patent No. 5,940,811 C1) from the PTO which formally concluded the reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 5,940,811. On March 26, 2004, the Company was notified by Federated Department Stores, Inc. ("Federated") and Ameritrade Holding Corporation ("Ameritrade") that they had jointly filed a request with the PTO to reexamine U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. On June 23, 2004, the Company received notification that the PTO had granted the request for reexamination. The Company has lawsuits pending against Federated and Ameritrade in the Columbia Division of the United States District Court for the State of South Carolina (the "Columbia Federal Court") in which it claims that both Federated and Ameritrade infringe U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company has similar litigation pending against Household International, Inc. ("Household"), in which it claims that Household infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,870,721 C1, No. 5,940,811 C1 and No. 6,105,007. The Company has jointly, with Federated, Ameritrade and Household, requested the Columbia Federal Court to stay the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household pending resolution of the reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. On March 30, 2006 the Company was notified that the PTO has concluded the reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007 and has issued a "Notice of Intent to Issue Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate" (the "Notice"). The Notice indicates that the reexamination resulted in the full allowance of all the claims of the Company's U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company expects to request that the stay of the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household be lifted so that the lawsuits may proceed in the Columbia Federal Court. It may take an extended period of time to complete the litigation with Federated, Ameritrade and Household. Moreover, protracted litigation with Federated, Ameritrade and Household may have a material adverse effect on the Company's patent licensing program and impede its ability to attract additional capital resources in order to continue its operations. 3 It is possible that third parties may bring additional actions to contest all or some of the Company's patents. The Company can make no assurances that it will not lose all or some of the claims covered by its existing patents. To date, the Company has generated substantial operating losses and has been required to use a substantial amount of cash resources to fund its operations. At December 31, 2005, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $13,776. As of March 31, 2006, the Company had almost completely exhausted its remaining cash resources. Unless it secures additional capital immediately, the Company may have to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. Moreover, the Company currently does not have the resources to repay the principal and accrued interest outstanding under its convertible secured notes (the "notes"), which have become due and payable in full as discussed below. If any of the holders of these notes takes action to collect the amounts owed by the Company under these notes, the Company will be forced to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. Since 2002, the Company has issued an aggregate of $1,425,336 principal amount of convertible secured notes to certain investors as part of its efforts to raise additional capital. These notes bear interest at 8%, are convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of $.20 per share, and are secured by the Company's equity interest in decisioning.com, Inc., which owns the Company's patent portfolio. The outstanding notes include a note in the principal amount of $125,000 acquired on June 3, 2002 by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and a note in the principal amount of $100,000 acquired on November 5, 2003 by a subsidiary of The South Financial Group, which at that time owned approximately 12% of the Company's outstanding capital stock. Principal and interest under these notes generally becomes payable in full on the second anniversary of the date on which these notes were issued. However, under the terms of the notes, the full amount of principal and interest under all notes becomes immediately due and payable in certain events, including bankruptcy or similar proceedings involving the Company, a default in the payment of principal and interest under any note, or a change in control of the Company. To date, notes with a principal amount of $1,206,336 have become due and payable in accordance with their contractual two-year maturity dates. The Company has had discussions with the holders of these notes regarding the extension of the maturity date of these notes. However, the Company has not been successful in reaching an agreement with all of the holders of these notes regarding an extension of their maturity date. Because the Company is currently in default regarding payment of principal and interest due under certain of the notes, the full amount of principal and interest outstanding under all notes has become due and payable. Accordingly, the full amount of principal and accrued interest under all of these notes is shown as a current liability of the Company as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, the amount of principal and accrued interest outstanding under all of the notes was $1,595,906 and $1,383,149, respectively. 4 To remain viable, the Company must generate working capital through the sale of patent licenses or by raising additional capital. To date, the Company generally has been unable to enter into licensing agreements with potential licensees upon terms that are acceptable to the Company. As discussed above, the Company has been forced to become involved in litigation with alleged infringers. The Company believes that these lawsuits may take an extended period of time to complete, and no assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources necessary to complete these lawsuits or that it will be successful in obtaining a favorable outcome. Accordingly, to remain viable it is critical that the Company raise additional capital immediately. The uncertainties of these litigation matters and other factors affecting the Company's short and long-term liquidity discussed above has impeded and will likely continue to impede the Company's ability to raise additional capital. To maintain the minimal resources necessary to support its current operations and execute a patent licensing strategy, the Company does not believe that substantial additional reductions in its operating expenses are feasible. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to raise additional capital or generate working capital from its patent licensing business. The Company has been a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Temple Ligon, who claims that the Company breached an agreement to give him a 1% equity interest in the Company in consideration of services he claims to have performed in 1993 and 1994 in conjunction with the formation of the Company. In January 2004, this litigation resulted in a jury verdict against the Company of $382,148. In connection with the litigation and the resulting jury verdict, the Company filed post-trial motions with the trial court in which, among other things, it claimed that the jury verdict should be set aside. On July 23, 2004, the trial judge granted the Company's motions, set aside the jury verdict, and ordered entry of a judgment in favor of the Company. The plaintiff has appealed the trial judge's ruling to the South Carolina Court of Appeals. If the Company becomes obligated to pay more than an insignificant amount of damages in connection with this litigation, it will be forced to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. The Company maintains an Internet site at HTTP://WWW.AFFI.NET, although the contents of such web site are not incorporated into this report. The Company has made its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports available through its web site free of charge through a link to the SEC's web site. The Company was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1994. Its principal executive offices are located at 8807-A Two Notch Road, Columbia, South Carolina 29223, and its telephone number is (803) 758-2511. PATENT LICENSING AGENT On May 27, 2003, decisioning.com entered into a legal representation agreement with Withrow & Terranova, PLLC, pursuant to which decisioning.com appointed Withrow & Terranova, PLLC as its exclusive representative for the solicitation and negotiation of agreements to license decisioning.com's patents. (This arrangement replaced the former patent licensing agent agreement between decisioning.com and Information Ventures LLC d/b/a LPS Group, which was terminated on April 30, 2003.) Under the agreement, Withrow & Terranova, PLLC has agreed to promote, market, solicit, and negotiate the licensing of patents with third parties and to represent decisioning.com as legal counsel in connection with any patent litigation associated with the enforcement of the patents. As compensation for its services under the agreement, Withrow & Terranova will receive 25% of all revenues received by decisioning.com under any patent agreements and 25% of all amounts paid in settlement of any patent litigation commenced by the Company. The term of the agreement is for the life of the patents, subject to either party's right to terminate the agreement for "cause," as specified in the agreement, and without cause following the third anniversary of the agreement. If the agreement is terminated by decisioning.com, Withrow & Terranova, PLLC will be entitled to continue to receive compensation attributable to patent agreements negotiated prior to termination and, if such termination is without cause, compensation for certain future patent agreements. 5 COMPETITION The market for technologies that enable electronic commerce is highly competitive and is subject to rapid innovation and technological change, shifting consumer preferences, new product introductions and competition from traditional methods having all or some of the same features as technologies enabling electronic commerce. Competitors in this market have frequently taken different strategic approaches and have launched substantially different products or services in order to exploit the same perceived market opportunity. Until the market actually validates a strategy through widespread acceptance of a product or service, it is difficult to identify all current or potential market participants. There can be no assurance that the technologies covered by the Company's patents will be competitive technologically or otherwise. Electronic commerce technologies in general, including the methods covered by the Company's patents, compete with traditional methods for processing financial transactions. The success of the Company's patent licensing efforts will depend in part on consumer acceptance of electronic commerce and industry use of systems that are covered by the Company's patents. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company was issued two patents in 1999 covering systems and methods for real-time loan processing over a computer network without human intervention ("System and Method for Real-time Loan Approval", U.S. Patent No. 5,870,721, and "Closed-loop Financial Transaction Method and Apparatus," U.S. Patent No. 5,940,811). Both of the Company's patents covering fully automated loan processing systems expire in 2013 and have been subject to reexamination by the PTO at the request of third parties who have challenged the validity of the patents. On January 28, 2003, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate relating to the completion of the PTO's reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 5,870,721. On December 20, 2005, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate relating to the completion of the PTO's reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 5,940,811. In August 2000, the Company was issued a patent covering the automated establishment of a financial account without human intervention ("Automatic Financial Account Processing System", U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007). The patent expires in 2013. On June 23, 2004, the Company was notified by the PTO that it had granted a reexamination request previously filed by Federated Department Stores, Inc. ("Federated") and Ameritrade Holding Corporation ("Ameritrade") to reexamine U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company has lawsuits pending against Federated and Ameritrade in the Columbia Division of the United States District Court for the State of South Carolina (the "Court") in which it claims that both Federated and Ameritrade infringe U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company has similar litigation pending against Household International, Inc. ("Household"), in which it claims that Household infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,870,721 C1, No. 5,940,811 C1 and No. 6,105,007. The Company has jointly, with Federated, Ameritrade and Household, requested the Columbia Federal Court to stay the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household pending resolution of the reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. On March 30, 2006 the Company was notified by the PTO that the reexamination had been concluded and that all of the claims of U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007 had been allowed. The Company expects to request that the stay of the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household be lifted so that the lawsuits may proceed in the Columbia Federal Court. It may take an extended period of time to complete the litigation with Federated, Ameritrade and Household. Other parties may take actions to challenge the Company's patents. The Company can make no assurances that it will not lose all or some of the claims covered by its existing patents. The Company also holds a patent, which expires in 2014, covering the issuance of insurance products automatically through a kiosk ("Method and Apparatus for Issuing Insurance from a Kiosk", U.S. Patent No. 5,537,315). "DeciSys/RT", and "E-xpertLender" are registered trademarks of the Company and "Affinity Technologies," "iDEAL," "rtDS," and "Affinity enabled" are registered service marks of the Company. The Company's success is completely dependent upon its ability to defend and license its patents. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new technological innovations will not be developed and widely accepted by the market which will render obsolete the types of systems and methods over which the Company believes it has proprietary intellectual property rights. 6 EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2005, the Company employed 1 full-time employee and one part-time employee, compared to 3 full-time employees at December 31, 2004. The Company has no collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider the following important factors, among others, that in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company's actual results and could cause the Company's future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. LIMITED CAPITAL RESOURCES; OPERATING LOSSES The Company has generated net losses of $69,244,419 since its inception and has financed its operations primarily through net proceeds from its initial public offering in May 1996 and cash generated from operations and other financing transactions. Net proceeds from the Company's initial public offering were $60,088,516. To date, the Company has generated substantial operating losses and has been required to use a substantial amount of cash resources to fund its operations. At December 31, 2005, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $13,776. As of March 31, 2006, the Company had almost completely exhausted its remaining cash resources. Unless it secures additional capital immediately, the Company may have to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. Moreover, the Company currently does not have the resources to repay the principal and accrued interest outstanding under its convertible secured notes (the "notes"), which have become due and payable in full as discussed below. If any of the holders of these notes takes action to collect the amounts owed by the Company under these notes, the Company will be forced to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. Since 2002, the Company has issued an aggregate of $1,425,336 principal amount of convertible secured notes to certain investors as part of its efforts to raise additional capital. These notes bear interest at 8%, are convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of $.20 per share, and are secured by the Company's equity interest in decisioning.com, Inc., which owns the Company's patent portfolio. The outstanding notes include a note in the principal amount of $125,000 acquired on June 3, 2002 by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and a note in the principal amount of $100,000 acquired on November 5, 2003 by a subsidiary of The South Financial Group, which at that time owned approximately 12% of the Company's outstanding capital stock. Principal and interest under these notes generally becomes payable in full on the second anniversary of the date on which these notes were issued. However, under the terms of the notes, the full amount of principal and interest under all notes becomes immediately due and payable in certain events, including bankruptcy or similar proceedings involving the Company, a default in the payment of principal and interest under any note, or a change in control of the Company. To date, notes with a principal amount of $1,206,336 have become due and payable in accordance with their contractual two-year maturity dates. The Company has had discussions with the holders of these notes regarding the extension of the maturity date of these notes. However, the Company has not been successful in reaching an agreement with all of the holders of these notes regarding an extension of their maturity date. Because the Company is currently in default regarding payment of principal and interest due under certain of the notes, the full amount of principal and interest outstanding under all notes has become due and payable. Accordingly, the full amount of principal and accrued interest under all of these notes is shown as a current liability of the Company as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, the amount of principal and accrued interest outstanding under all of the notes was $1,595,906 and $1,383,149, respectively. 7 To remain viable, the Company must generate working capital through the sale of patent licenses or by raising additional capital. To date, the Company generally has been unable to enter into licensing agreements with potential licensees upon terms that are acceptable to the Company. As discussed above, the Company has been forced to become involved in litigation with alleged infringers. The Company believes that these lawsuits may take an extended period of time to complete, and no assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources necessary to complete these lawsuits or that it will be successful in obtaining a favorable outcome. Accordingly, to remain viable it is critical that the Company raise additional capital immediately. The uncertainties of these litigation matters and other factors affecting the Company's short and long-term liquidity discussed above has impeded and will likely continue to impede the Company's ability to raise additional capital. To maintain the minimal resources necessary to support its current operations and execute a patent licensing strategy, the Company does not believe that substantial additional reductions in its operating expenses are feasible. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to raise additional capital or generate working capital from its patent licensing business. The Company has been a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Temple Ligon, who claims that the Company breached an agreement to give him a 1% equity interest in the Company in consideration of services he claims to have performed in 1993 and 1994 in conjunction with the formation of the Company. In January 2004, this litigation resulted in a jury verdict against the Company of $382,148. In connection with the litigation and the resulting jury verdict, the Company filed post-trial motions with the trial court in which, among other things, it claimed that the jury verdict should be set aside. On July 23, 2004, the trial judge granted the Company's motions, set aside the jury verdict, and ordered entry of a judgment in favor of the Company. The plaintiff has appealed the trial judge's ruling to the South Carolina Court of Appeals. If the Company becomes obligated to pay more than an insignificant amount of damages in connection with this litigation, it will be forced to consider alternatives for winding down its business, which may include offering its patents for sale or filing for bankruptcy protection. In order to fund its operations, the Company may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional convertible debt or equity securities, in which case the percentage ownership of the stockholders of the Company may be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution, and such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to common stock. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to continue operations. DEPENDENCE ON PATENT LICENSING PROGRAM Due to capital constraints, the Company has suspended efforts to deploy its loan processing products and services. The Company's business activities currently consist exclusively of attempting to license certain of its patents. The Company's prospects are dependent on its ability to finance and execute a sustainable patent licensing program. Even though the Company believes there are companies that may be using systems, processes and methods covered by the Company's patents, it is not known whether the Company will be able to enter into any new licensing agreements. Moreover, the Company may not have the resources to sustain its patent licensing program, enforce its patent rights, finance any related litigation, or successfully negotiate patent licenses on terms that will generate meaningful future revenues. The Company is further subject to the risk that negotiations to license its patents may be lengthy and that it may be necessary for the Company to become involved in litigation to assert and protect its intellectual property rights. To date, the Company generally has been unable to enter into licensing agreements with potential licensees upon terms that are acceptable to the Company. As a result, the Company has been forced to become involved in litigation with alleged infringers. Currently, the Company is involved in three patent litigation actions. The Company believes that these lawsuits may take an extended period of time to complete. No assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources necessary to complete these lawsuits or that it will be successful in obtaining a favorable outcome. Prolonged patent litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial position. 8 CHALLENGES TO PATENTS Both of the Company's patents covering fully-automated loan processing systems have been subject to reexamination by the PTO as a result of requests by third parties who have challenged the validity of the patents. On January 28, 2003, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate relating to the completion of the PTO's reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 5,870,721. On December 20, 2005, the Company received a Reexamination Certificate relating to the completion of the PTO's reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 5,940,811. On March 26, 2004, the Company was notified by Federated Department Stores, Inc. ("Federated") and Ameritrade Holding Corporation ("Ameritrade") that they had jointly filed a request with the PTO to reexamine U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. On June 23, 2004, the Company received notification that the PTO had granted the request for reexamination. The Company has lawsuits pending against Federated and Ameritrade in the Columbia Division of the United States District Court for the State of South Carolina (the "Columbia Federal Court") in which it claims that both Federated and Ameritrade infringe U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company has similar litigation pending against Household International, Inc. ("Household"), in which it claims that Household infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,870,721 C1, No. 5,940,811 C1 and No. 6,105,007. The Company has jointly, with Federated, Ameritrade and Household, requested the Columbia Federal Court to stay the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household pending resolution of the reexamination of U. S. Patent No. 6,105,007. On March 30, 2006 the Company was notified that the PTO has concluded the reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007 and has issued a "Notice of Intent to Issue Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate" (the "Notice"). The Notice indicates that the reexamination resulted in the full allowance of all the claims of the Company's U.S. Patent No. 6,105,007. The Company expects to request that the stay of the lawsuits against Federated, Ameritrade and Household be lifted so that the lawsuits may proceed in the Columbia Federal Court. It may take an extended period of time to complete the litigation with Federated, Ameritrade and Household. Moreover, protracted litigation with Federated, Ameritrade and Household may have a material adverse effect on the Company's patent licensing program and impede its ability to attract additional capital resources in order to continue its operations. It is possible that third parties may bring additional actions to contest all or some of the Company's patents. The Company may lose all or some of the claims covered by its existing patents as a result of existing or future challenges. The loss of all or some of its claims or a significant limitation of such claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to execute a successful patent licensing program. Moreover, if other parties request reexaminations of or otherwise challenge the Company's patents in the future, the Company is subject to the risk that such proceeding may not be resolved to the Company's satisfaction on a timely basis, if at all. Any such proceeding may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial position. Moreover, in the event a challenge to the Company's patents results in a significant loss of all or some of its claims, the Company's only remedy may be to contest the decision, which would likely be a lengthy process. Due to the Company's limited capital resources, it is unlikely that the Company could successfully contest the decision without additional cash resources. Accordingly, a decision by the PTO to limit all or some of the Company's patent claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial position. 9 DEPENDENCE ON E-COMMERCE TECHNOLOGIES The Company's patents are specific to the e-commerce businesses of the financial services industry and generally cover the automated establishment of loans, financial accounts and credit accounts using specific e-commerce related systems, processes and methods. The market for products and services that enable e-commerce is subject to change and technological development, shifting consumer preferences, new product introductions and competition from traditional products and services having all or some of the same features as products and services which enable e-commerce. It is possible that new products or technologies may be developed that may render obsolete the systems, processes and methods over which the Company believes it has intellectual property rights. Moreover, the delivery of products and services through e-commerce channels is not fully developed, and competition from traditional channels to deliver these same products and services is intense. Any wide-scale rejection of e-commerce channels by consumers will have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial position. DEPENDENCE ON THIRD PARTIES Patent licensing is a highly technical and specialized business which requires the Company to rely on the services of third parties. In May 2003, the Company appointed Withrow & Terranova, PLLC as its exclusive patent licensing agent. Under the terms of the agreement, Withrow & Terranova, PLLC has agreed, among other things, to perform market research, initiate the sales of patent license agreements, negotiate patent licensing arrangements with third parties, and represent the Company as legal counsel in connection with the enforcement of its patents. Accordingly, the Company is dependent on Withrow & Terranova, PLLC to successfully execute its patent licensing program. Additionally, the agreement requires Withrow & Terranova, PLLC to coordinate the engagement of experts, on terms satisfactory to the Company, if litigation becomes necessary to enforce the Company's patent rights. The success of the Company's patent licensing program and enforcement of its patents may depend on the satisfactory retention and efforts of experts. Moreover, experts frequently request and charge significant fees. POTENTIAL FOR FLUCTUATION IN QUARTERLY RESULTS Since its inception, the Company's quarterly results have fluctuated and have not been susceptible to meaningful period-to-period comparisons. The Company believes that it may continue to experience significant fluctuations in its quarterly operating results in the foreseeable future. The Company anticipates that its period-to-period revenue and operating results will depend on numerous factors including the ability of the Company to successfully negotiate and enter into patent licensing agreements and the timing, terms and the pricing attributes of any such agreements. The Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of revenues coupled with the risk of substantial fluctuations in its quarterly operating results may have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company's Common Stock in the future. DEPENDENCE ON KEY EMPLOYEES The Company is highly dependent on the services of its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph A. Boyle. The Company does not have an employment agreement with Mr. Boyle or "key man" insurance on his life. The complete loss of the services of Mr. Boyle could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the Company's financial condition would likely adversely affect the Company's ability to retain or recruit employees and executives. 10 RISK OF SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION The Company has issued convertible notes that are convertible into common stock at $0.20 per share, which could be substantially less than the market price of the common stock at the time of conversion. The issuance of stock at a price that is less than the market price could have an immediate adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock. In addition, the Company has issued options and warrants to acquire shares of its common stock, and the Company may issue additional convertible notes or warrants in connection with financing arrangements and may grant additional stock options under its stock option plan that may further dilute the Company's common stock. The exercise of such securities would have a dilutive effect on the Company's common stock. Also, to the extent that persons who acquire shares under all the foregoing agreements sell those shares in the market, the price of the Company's shares may decrease due to additional shares in the market. VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE AND RISK OF LITIGATION The Company's common stock price has been volatile and has experienced substantial and sudden fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have especially affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies directly and indirectly involved in the technology sector, and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS Certain provisions of Delaware law and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company's common stock. These provisions of Delaware law and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may also have the effect of discouraging or preventing certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of the Company (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer the Company's stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Certain of these provisions allow the Company to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and other rights that could adversely affect the interests of holders of common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, for example, could decrease the amount of earnings or assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock, as well as having the anti-takeover effects discussed above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 