ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, potential acquisitions, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our reports on forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize additional pharmaceutical products Our future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon our ability to successfully commercialize additional generic and proprietary pharmaceutical products. With respect to our generic products, we must develop, test and manufacture these products, as well as prove that our generic products are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts. With respect to our proprietary products, we must complete typically lengthy clinical studies that prove the safety and efficacy of our proprietary products. All of our products must meet and continue to comply with regulatory and safety standards and receive regulatory approvals. We may be forced to withdraw a product from the market if health or safety concerns arise with respect to the product. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to proprietary products, is both time-consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Our products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as we expect, necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. Delays in any part of the process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or delaying our introduction of new products. Our ability to introduce and benefit from new generic products may depend upon our ability to successfully challenge patent rights held by branded companies. The continuous introduction of new products is critical to our business. 28 Table of Contents Impact on our revenues and profits as competition is introduced We attempt to select our generic products based on the prospects for limited competition from competing generic companies. We do so because we believe that the more generic competitors that market the same generic product, the lower the revenue and profitability we will record for our product. Therefore, if any of our currently marketed products or any newly launched generic product are subject to additional generic competition from one or more competing products, our price and market share for the affected generic product and our operating results as a whole could be dramatically reduced. As a consequence, unless we successfully replace generic products that are declining in profitability with new generic products with higher profitability, our business could be adversely affected. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity periods for one of our branded products, or upon the “at risk” launch by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our branded products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. If we do not continue to successfully replace proprietary products through internal development or acquisition, our revenue and profits will decline. Resolving Paragraph IV patent challenges Our operating results have historically included significant contributions from products that arise from the success we have had from our patent challenge activities. However, the success we have had in the past from challenging branded companies’ patents, whether through court decisions that permit us to launch our generic products or through settlements, may not be repeated in the future due to the following: • legislation currently pending in Congress that, if passed as currently written, could significantly limit the ability of brand and generic companies to settle patent litigation under the Hatch-Waxman Act; • “patent reform” legislation proposals that would make it more difficult to invalidate patents or render them unenforceable; • an increase in the number of competitors who pursue patent challenges could make it more difficult for us to be the first to file a Paragraph IV certification on a patent protected product; • a branded company’s decision to launch an authorized generic version of a product will reduce our market share and lower the revenues and gross profits we could have otherwise earned if an authorized generic were not launched; • claims brought by third parties, including the FTC, various states’ Attorneys General and other third-party payers challenging the legality of our settlement agreements could affect the way in which we resolve our patent challenges with the brand pharmaceutical companies; and • the efforts of brand companies to use legislative and regulatory tactics to delay the launch of generic products. Impact of “At Risk” Launches There are situations in which we have used our business and legal judgment and decided to market and sell products, subject to claims of alleged patent infringement, prior to final resolution by the courts, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed. This is referred to in the pharmaceutical industry as an “at risk” launch. One such example of this is our “at risk” launch of Fexofenadine hydrochloride 30 mg, 60 mg and 180 mg tablets, the generic versions of Sanofi-Aventis’ Allegra® tablets, together with Teva, as discussed above. The risk involved in an “at risk” launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to such holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic 29 Table of Contents version of the product. Should we elect to proceed in this manner we could face substantial damages if the final court decision is adverse to us. In the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was “willful”, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be trebled. Uncertainty associated with pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and related matters Increasing expenditures for health care have been the subject of considerable public attention in almost every jurisdiction where we conduct business. Both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain health care costs. In many countries in which we currently operate, pharmaceutical prices are subject to regulation. In the U.S., numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. health care system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures, including the enactment in December 2003 of expanded Medicare coverage for drugs, which became effective in January 2006. Similar activities are taking place throughout Europe. We cannot predict the nature of the measures that may be adopted or their impact on the marketing, pricing and demand for our products. Managed Care Trends The trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, reimbursements to patients may not be maintained and third-party payers, which place limits on levels of reimbursement, may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products and could significantly harm our business. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to reimbursement programs that could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government Regulation We are dependent on obtaining timely approvals before marketing most of our products. Any manufacturer failing to comply with FDA or other applicable regulatory agency requirements may be unable to obtain approvals for the introduction of new products and, even after approval, initial product shipments may be delayed. For example, on May 8, 2006, prior to the acquisition, PLIVA received a warning letter from the FDA that raised numerous concerns regarding our manufacturing facility in Zagreb, Croatia, and in connection with that letter, the FDA imposed a temporary hold on approvals of ANDAs for products produced at this facility which has since been lifted. The FDA also has the authority, in certain circumstances, to revoke drug approvals previously granted and remove from the market previously approved drug products containing ingredients no longer approved by the FDA. Our major facilities, both in the U.S. and outside the U.S., and our products are periodically inspected by the FDA, which has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including the power to seize, force to recall and prohibit the sale or import of non-complying products, and to halt operations of and criminally prosecute non-complying manufacturers. In Europe, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that in the United States. Legal requirements generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. The registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. Health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or manufactured and marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. Data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries worldwide, including in the European Union, although their application is not uniform. Similar provisions may be adopted by additional countries or otherwise strengthened. In general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of a novel brand-name product in that 30 Table of Contents country. As these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. Product Manufacturing Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of approved products, could adversely affect future results. Dependence on Third Parties We rely on numerous third parties to supply us with most of our raw materials, inactive ingredients and other components for our manufactured products and for certain of our finished goods. In many instances there is only a single supplier. In addition, we rely on third-party distributors and alliance partners to provide services for our business, including product development, manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services for certain of our products. Also, in Europe we often in-license products that are manufactured by others for us. Nearly all third-party suppliers and contractors are subject to governmental regulation and, accordingly, we are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties. We also depend on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third-party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements or obligations with us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our revenues include amounts we earn based on sales generated and recorded by Teva Pharmaceuticals for generic Allegra, and Kos Pharmaceuticals for NIASPAN and ADVICOR. Any factors that negatively impact the sales of these products could adversely impact our revenues and profits. Customer Consolidation Our principal customers in the United States are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation as a result of mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. Acquisitions We regularly review potential acquisitions of products and companies complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks including difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our ability to develop and introduce new products. Integration of PLIVA We acquired PLIVA in October 2006. The acquisition involved the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently. There continues to be a number of operational and financial risks associated with this acquisition and related integration. The operational risks include, but are not limited to, the following: 31 Table of Contents • the necessity of coordinating and consolidating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities, including as they relate to disclosure controls and internal controls for purposes of regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • the successful integration of our management and personnel with that of PLIVA and retaining key employees; and • changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products. The financial risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • our ability to satisfy obligations with respect to the $1.8 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2007 that we incurred to help finance this transaction, a significant portion of which is at a variable rate of interest based upon LIBOR; • charges associated with this transaction, including additional depreciation and amortization of acquired assets and interest expense which have impacted, and will continue to negatively impact, our net income; • our ability to accurately forecast financial results is affected by a significant increase in the scope and complexity of our business; • our international-based revenues and expenses are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • to the extent goodwill or intangible assets associated with the acquisition become impaired, we may be required to incur material charges to our earnings for those impairments. If management is unable to successfully integrate the operations and manage the financial risks, the anticipated benefits of this acquisition may not be realized and it could result in a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flow. We have substantial indebtedness which requires us to apply a substantial portion of our cash flows from operation to service our indebtedness. In connection with our acquisition of PLIVA, we incurred significant debt. As of December 31, 2007 our total outstanding debt was $2.1 billion. Our current indebtedness requires us to apply a significant portion of our operating cash flows to service our indebtedness which may prevent us from: • making additional product acquisitions; • completing additional business combinations; • investing in all contemplated capital projects; • securing additional debt; • having a competitive advantage over our competitors that have less debt; and 32 Table of Contents • having the ability to invest larger portions of our excess cash flow from operations in marketable securities. Volatility in interest rates, commodity prices and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows The current volatility in interest rates, commodity prices and credit markets could affect the following items: • our ability to invest in higher earning marketable securities in both the short-term and long-term markets; • our ability to raise additional liquidity due to credit concerns in the capital markets; • our ability to liquidate certain investments under our marketable securities portfolio (including auction-rate securities) due to credit concerns in the capital markets; and • our exposure to the volatile interest rate market and the inability to secure favorable interest rates. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States Our operations outside of the U.S. are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-U.S. laws, regulations and customs. The risks associated with our operations outside the U.S. include: • changes in non-U.S. medical reimbursement policies and programs; • multiple non-U.S. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products; • compliance with anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, as discussed in further detail below; • different local product preferences and product requirements; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-U.S. operations; • different labor regulations; • changes in environmental, health and safety laws; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • economic instability, inflation, recession, and interest rate or foreign currency fluctuations; and • minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to the restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. As a result of our PLIVA acquisition, sales in non-U.S. markets now represent a significant portion of our net sales. Therefore, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro or Croatian Kuna, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our operating results. Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could create volatility in our results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, the potentially significant charges to our operating results for items like in-process research and development charges and transaction costs. Legal Proceedings As described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this report, we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer and commercial litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and unfavorable rulings do occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages or, in some rare cases, for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting the Company from manufacturing or selling one or more products. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. Availability of Product Liability Insurance Our business inherently exposes us to claims relating to the use of our products. We sell, and will continue to sell, pharmaceutical products for which product liability insurance coverage may not be available, and, accordingly, if we are sued and if adverse judgments are rendered, we may be subject to claims that are not covered by insurance, as well as claims that exceed our policy limits. Additional products for which we currently have coverage may be excluded in the future. In addition, product liability coverage for pharmaceutical companies is becoming more expensive and increasingly difficult to obtain. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the type and amount of coverage we desire on commercially reasonable terms. Exposure to Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental protection and health and safety laws in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. Such laws and regulations govern, among other things: 34 Table of Contents • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; • investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and • the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws outside of the U.S. are becoming more stringent and resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict and joint and several. In addition to clean-up actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, clean-up and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or clean-up in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Managing Rapidly Growing Operations We have grown significantly over the past several years, extending our processes, systems and people. In particular, our acquisition of PLIVA has significantly added to the scope and complexity of our operations. We have made and continue to make significant investments in global enterprise resource systems and our internal control processes to help manage the increased scope and complexity of our business. We must also attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales and marketing and support positions to support our growth. As a result, hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, technical staff, manufacturing personnel, qualified quality and regulatory professionals and sales representatives are critical to our business and competition for these people can be intense. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees and if we do not continue to invest in systems and processes to manage our growth, our operations could be adversely impacted. Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in countries that we operate. Terrorist Activity Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents 