Item 1A. Risk Factors.The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Other events that the Company does not currently anticipate or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may affect results of operations and financial condition. Sales Force Factors The Company’s products are marketed and sold through the "direct-to-consumer" method of distribution, in which products are primarily marketed and sold to consumers, without the use of retail establishments, by a sales force made up of independent contractors. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large force of sales personnel to grow and compensate for a high turnover rate. The recruitment and retention of sales force members is dependent upon the competitive environment among direct-to-consumer companies and upon the general labor market, unemployment levels, general economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of the sales force is dependent, in part, upon the effectiveness of compensation and promotional programs of the Company, the competitiveness of the same compared with other direct-to-consumer companies, the introduction of new products and the ability to advance through the sales force structure. 6The Company’s sales are directly tied to the activity levels of its sales force, which is in large part a temporary working activity for sales force members. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of the Company’s sales force, the amount of average sales per order, the amount of sales per sales force member, the mix of high-margin and low-margin products sold at parties and elsewhere, and the activities and actions of the Company’s product line and channel competitors. In addition, the Company’s sales force members may be affected by initiatives undertaken by the Company to grow its revenue base that may lead to the inaccurate perception that the independent sales force system is at risk of being phased out. International Operations A significant portion of the Company’s sales and profit comes from its international operations. Although these operations are geographically dispersed, which partially mitigates the risks associated with operating in particular countries, the Company is subject to the usual risks associated with international operations. These risks include local political and economic environments, adverse new tax regulations and relations between U.S. and foreign governments. The Company derived 91 percent of its net sales from operations outside the United States in 2013. Because of this, movement in exchange rates may have a significant impact on the Company’s earnings, cash flows and financial position. The Company’s most significant exposures are to the euro, the Indonesian rupiah and the Mexican peso. Business units in which the Company generated at least $100 million of sales in 2013 included Brazil, Tupperware France, Fuller Mexico, Germany, Indonesia, Malaysia/Singapore, Tupperware Mexico and Tupperware United States and Canada. Of these units, sales by Fuller Mexico and Indonesia exceeded $200 million. Although this currency risk is partially mitigated by the natural hedge arising from the Company’s local product sourcing in many markets, a strengthening U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on the Company. In response to this fact, the Company continues to implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in earnings associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company generally does not seek to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on the translated value of the sales, profit or cash flow generated by its operations. Some of the hedging strategies implemented have a positive or negative impact on cash flows as foreign currencies fluctuate versus the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. Another risk associated with the Company’s international operations is restrictions foreign governments may impose on currency remittances. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of countries and control of exchange rates and currency convertibility, the Company may not be able to immediately access its cash at the exchange rate used to translate its financial statements. This is a particular issue currently in Venezuela.Legal and Regulatory Issues The Company's business may also be affected by actions of domestic and foreign governments to restrict the activities of direct-to-consumer companies for various reasons, including the limitation on the ability of direct-to-consumer companies to operate without the involvement of a traditional retail channel. Foreign governments may also introduce other forms of protectionist legislation, such as limitations on the products which can be produced locally or requirements that non-domestic companies doing or seeking to do business place a certain percentage of ownership of legal entities in the hands of local nationals to protect the commercial interests of its citizens. Customs laws, tariffs, import duties, export quotas and restrictions on repatriation of foreign earnings and/or other methods of accessing cash generated internationally, may negatively affect the Company's international operations. Governments may seek either to impose taxes on independent sales force members or to classify independent sales force members as employees of direct-to-consumer companies with whom they may be associated, triggering employment-related taxes on the part of the direct-to-consumer companies. The U.S. government may impose restrictions on the Company's ability to engage in business in a foreign country in connection with the foreign policy of the United States. 7Product Safety Certain of the materials used in the Company’s product lines may give rise to concerns of consumers based upon scientific theories which are espoused from time to time, including the risk of certain materials leaching out of plastic containers used for their intended purposes or the ingredients used in cosmetics, personal care or nutritional products causing harm to human health. This includes polycarbonate that contains the chemical Bisphenol A. It is the Company’s policy to use in products for each of its business units only those materials or ingredients that are approved by relevant regulatory authorities for contact with food or skin or for ingestion by consumers, as applicable. General Business Factors The Company’s business can be affected by a wide range of factors that affect other businesses. Weather, natural disasters, strikes, epidemics/pandemics, political instability and public scrutiny of the direct-to-consumer channel, may have a significant impact on the willingness or ability of consumers to attend parties or otherwise purchase the Company’s products. The supply and cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum and natural gas-based resins, may have an impact on the availability or cost of the Company’s plastic products. The Company is also subject to frequent product copying, counterfeiting and other intellectual property infringement, which may be difficult to police and prevent, depending upon the availability of intellectual property rights, the ability to identify the source of such activities and the existence and enforceability of laws affording protection to Company property. Other risks, as discussed under the sub-heading “Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Part II, Item 7A of this Report, may be relevant to performance as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.