Risk Factors” (“Cautionary Statements”). Any forward-looking statements contained in this annual report speak only as of the date hereof, and we caution potential investors not to place undue reliance on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements. 51 Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Senior Management As of the date of this annual report, our directors, senior management and key employees are as follows: Name Age Position Yossi Ben Shalom 54 Chairman of the Board William F. Gibbs 55 Vice Chairman of the Board Barak Dotan 41 Director Yoel Rosenthal 54 Director David Golan 68 Director Eti Livni 60 External Director Rami Entin 58 External Director Dan Haran 51 President and Chief Executive Officer Ilan Erez 41 Chief Financial Officer Yossi Ben Shalom is a co-founder of DBSI Investments Ltd. Prior to establishing DBSI Investments, Mr. Ben Shalom served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Koor Industries Ltd. (NYSE:KOR), from 1998 through 2000. Prior to that, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Tadiran Ltd. Mr. Ben Shalom has also been an active director on numerous boards, such as NICE Systems (NASDAQ:NICE), Machteshim Agan, Bank Klali and others. Mr. Ben Shalom holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and a master’s degree in business administration from Tel Aviv University. William F. Gibbs is the founder of Gibbs System, Inc. (aka Gibbs and Associates), the makers of GibbsCAM. He joined Cimatron in January 2, 2008, with the merger of Gibbs into Cimatron’s wholly owned subsidiary. Mr. Gibbs worked as a mechanical design engineer from 1972 to 1978. He designed his first CAM system for the Hasbach Co., as their VP of software development from 1978 to 1982. He started Gibbs and Associates as a contract programming service for CNC part programming in 1982, beginning CAM software development for the Macintosh computer in 1984. GibbsCAM, the 2nd generation Gibbs software, was first released in 1993. Mr. Gibbs holds a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the California State University at Northridge California. Barak Dotan is a co-founder of DBSI Investments Ltd. Prior to establishing DBSI Investments, Mr. Dotan worked as Product Manager for Jacada (NASDAQ:JCDA), formerly CST and later managed private investments in high-tech and other areas. Mr. Dotan graduated summa cum laude from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem with a bachelor’s degree in computer science and business administration. 52 Yoel Rosenthal has been the CFO of DBSI Investments Ltd. since 2001. Prior to joining D.B.S.I., Mr. Rosenthal was a founder and partner of a private accounting firm in Israel, Bruckner, Rosenthal, Ingber &Co. Prior to that he held the position of Loan Officer for multinational corporations at the Bank of Montreal in the USA. Mr. Rosenthal holds an MBA from the University of California in Los Angeles and a BA in Economics and Accounting from Tel Aviv University. David Golan has been a director on our Board since 1992 and is a former Chairman of the Board. Mr. Golan is currently an independent businessman and a director. Previously he was an executive director in the Binat Group and served on the board of directors of several public and private companies. From May 1998 to September 2000 Mr. Golan was Managing Director in charge of Zeevi Holdings’ investments, not including ZCT. From March 1997 to May 1998, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Clal Trading Ltd., a subsidiary of the IDB group. From 1992 to March 1997, he was Executive Vice President of Clal Trading. Mr. Golan was formerly president of Gal Weisfield Industries Ltd. Mr. Golan holds a bachelors degree in economics and statistics from Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a master’s degree in business administration from New York University. Eti Livni is currently active as a lawyer in commercial issues, environmental issues, intellectual property and also serves as an arbitrator and mediator in various disputes. Mrs. Livni also currently serves as a director in various Israeli public companies, including the Israel Military Industry (IMI), New Makefet Pension and Benefit Funds Management Ltd., and Alrov Ltd. From 2003 until 2006, Mrs. Livni served as a member of the 16th Knesset and as a member of several Knesset committees. From 1999 until 2006, Mrs. Livni was a member of the Shinui Party and was also acting as head of the women’s section in the party. From 1995 until 2003, Mrs. Livni acted as a member of the managing committee of the Israeli Bar Association and as a member of the Association’s ethics committee. Mrs. Livni holds an L.L.B from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and is a certified lawyer in Israel. Rami Entin currently serves as a director of ECtel Ltd., a NASDAQ-traded company that develops and markets fraud prevention and revenue assurance solutions for circuit-switched and packet-switched wireline and wireless networks, and is an external director of Solomon Holdings Ltd., an Israeli publicly traded construction company. Mr. Entin is also a director of Hilan-Tech Ltd., of Incentives Solutions Ltd. and of Gilon Business Insight Ltd., and serves as an external director of B.S.P. Biological Signals Processing Ltd. From 2002 until 2003, Mr. Entin was the chairman of the Hashavim Group, a data center for direct taxation and employment laws and a processor of wages and personnel data. From 1999 until 2001, Mr. Entin was Co-Chief Executive Officer and a director of Hilan-Tech Ltd., where he was in charge of financial, personnel, sales and marketing and Lotus Notes operations. From 1985 until 1999 he was financial manager and a director of Hilan Ltd., where he was in charge of financial and personnel operations. From 1981 until 1985, Mr. Entin worked for Kesselman & Kesselman, an accounting firm, where he served various publicly traded companies engaged in the services and industry fields. Mr. Entin holds a B.A. degree in accounting and economics and an M.B.A. degree from the Tel Aviv University, and is a certified accountant in Israel. He is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. 53 Dan Haran has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2005. Mr. Haran joined Cimatron as Vice President of Marketing and Chief Operating Officer in November 2003 after having been employed by Comverse (Nasdaq:CMVT) where he held several senior management positions, most recently as Chief Operating Officer of the Intelligent Network Division. Prior to Comverse, Mr. Haran managed Medcon Systems, an Israeli-based start-up company. Mr. Haran holds a bachelor of science degree in computer engineering from the Technion, a master of science degree from the Weitzman Institute, and a master of business administration degree from Tel Aviv University. Ilan Erez joined us as VP Finance in May 2005 and became our Chief Financial Officer in July 2005. From 1998 to 2005 Mr. Erez served as the Chief Financial Officer of Silicom Ltd., a NASDAQ listed company engaged in the design, manufacturing and selling of server-networking cards. He also served as VP Operations of Silicom from May 2001 until his departure. From 1996 to 1998 Mr. Erez served as a Controller and assistant to the Chief Executive Officer at Bio-Dar Ltd. From 1994 until 1996 Mr. Erez served as an Auditor at Kesselman & Kesselman, a member of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Erez is a Certified Public Accountant in Israel and holds a B.A in Accounting and Economics from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and an LL.M. in Business Law from Bar-Ilan University. Arrangements for the Election of Directors DBSI Investments Ltd., our largest shareholder (holding approximately 46.6% of our share capital), controls the outcome of most matters (other than matters with respect to which it is deemed to possess a personal interest) submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board of directors. Koonras and DBSI were parties to an agreement by which, among other matters, they would each appoint one-half of our directors, not including our external directors, and vote together at our shareholders’ meetings. However, following Koonras’ sale of 1,700,000 Ordinary Shares to DBSI and 854,360 Ordinary Shares to Kotek in May 2008 and June 2008, respectively, Koonras is no longer a shareholder of the Company and such agreement has been terminated. As a result of the merger with Gibbs System, Mr. Gibbs was issued 1,500,000 Ordinary Shares, which represent approximately 16.4% of our outstanding share capital. Additionally, Mr. Gibbs has been appointed as the vice chairman of our Board of Directors. Under the merger agreement, we undertook to Mr. Gibbs that he will serve as the vice chairman of our Board of Directors as long as he continues to hold at least 9% of our issued and outstanding share capital. Compensation During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid, in the aggregate, approximately $1.16 million in direct remuneration to our directors and officers for services provided by them to the Company in such capacities. Such sum does not include amounts expended by us for automobiles made available to our officers, expenses (including business travel, professional and business association dues and expenses) reimbursed to officers and other fringe benefits commonly reimbursed or paid by companies in the countries we operate. We pay each of our external directors, as well as Mr. David Golan and Mr. William F. Gibbs, an annual fee of approximately $8,000, plus approximately $410 for each meeting of the board of directors or a committee thereof attended and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the discharge of responsibilities as a board member, including attendance at meetings of the board of directors. 54 Please see Item 7 – “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for a description of the employment agreement entered into with Mr. Gibbs, and the terms pursuant to which Cimatron Gibbs leases office space from Mr. Gibbs. Board of Directors Our Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors of not less than two members. Each director, with the exception of external directors who are elected to serve for set periods of time (as described below), is elected to serve until the next annual general meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor has been duly elected. Officers serve at the discretion of the Board. Substitute Directors Our Articles of Association provide that any director may, by written notice to us, appoint another person to serve as a substitute director and may cancel such appointment. A person may not serve as a substitute director for more than one director and may not serve both as a director and as a substitute director. The term of appointment of a substitute director may be for one meeting of our Board of Directors or for a specified period or until notice is given of the cancellation of the appointment. Any substitute director will have all of the rights and obligations of the director appointing him or her, except the power to appoint a substitute (unless the instrument appointing him or her provides otherwise), and the right to remuneration. The substitute director may not act at any meeting at which the director appointing him or her is present. Unless the appointing director limits the time period or scope of any appointment, the appointment is effective for all purposes, but will expire upon the expiration of the appointing director’s term. To our knowledge, no director currently intends to appoint any other person as a substitute director, except if the director is unable to attend a meeting of the Board of Directors. External Directors The Israeli Companies Law requires Israeli companies with shares that have been offered to the public in or outside of Israel to appoint at least two external directors. No person may be appointed as an external director if the person or the person’s relative, partner, employer or any entity under the person’s control, has or had, on or within the two years preceding the date of the person’s appointment to serve as external director, any affiliation with the company or any entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the company. The term “affiliation” includes: — an employment relationship; — a business or professional relationship maintained on a regular basis; — control; and — service as an office holder. 55 No person may serve as an external director if the person’s position or other business activities create, or may create, a conflict of interest with the person’s responsibilities as an external director or may otherwise interfere with the person’s ability to serve as an external director. If, at the time external directors are to be appointed, all current members of the board of directors are of the same gender, then at least one external director must be of the other gender. External directors are to be elected by a majority vote at a shareholders’ meeting, provided that either: — the majority of shares voted at the meeting, including at least one-third of the shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted at the meeting, vote in favor of election of the director; or — the total number of shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted against the election of the director does not exceed one percent of the aggregate voting rights in the company. The initial term of an external director is three years, and he or she may be reelected to one additional term of three years by a majority vote at a shareholders’ meeting. In addition, under a recent amendment to the regulations promulgated under the Companies Law, external directors of public companies whose shares are also registered for trading in certain stock exchanges outside of Israel, like ours, may be elected for additional three year terms (in excess of the original six year term) provided that in light of such external director’s expertise and special contribution to the work of the company’s board of directors and audit committee, the re-election of such external director is for the benefit of the company. An external director may be removed only by the same percentage of shareholders as is required for his or her election, or by a court, and then only if he or she ceases to meet the statutory requirements for his or her appointment or if he or she violates the duty of loyalty to the company. Each committee of a company’s board of directors that has the right to exercise powers delegated by the board must include at least one external director, and the audit committee is required to include all of the external directors. Our external directors are Eti Livni and Rami Entin, who will complete their current terms in April 2011, in accordance with Israeli law. An external director is entitled to certain compensation as provided in regulations adopted under the Companies Law but is otherwise prohibited from receiving any other compensation, directly or indirectly, in connection with service provided as an external director. 56 Under the Companies Law, at least one of the external directors serving on a company’s board of directors is required to have “financial expertise” and the other external director or directors are required to have “professional expertise.” A director is deemed to have “professional expertise” if he or she either (i) has an academic degree in economics, business management, accounting, law or public service, (ii) has an academic or other degree or has completed other higher education, all in the field of business of the company or relevant for his/her position, or (iii) has at least 5 years experience as either a senior managing officer in the company’s line of business with a significant volume of business, a public office, or a senior position in the company’s main line of business. A director with “financial expertise” is a director that due to his or her education, experience and skills has a high expertise and understanding in financial and accounting matters and financial statements, in such a manner which allows him to deeply understand the financial statements of the company and initiate a discussion about the presentation of financial data. However, under regulations promulgated under the Companies Law, a public company whose shares are also registered for trading in certain stock exchanges outside of Israel, like ours, is not required to appoint an external director with financial and accounting expertise, if at such time there is another director serving on the board of directors of such company who has financial and accounting expertise and who is an independent director for purposes of membership on the audit committee thereof, in accordance with the applicable laws of the state in which such shares are registered (and the rules and regulations of such foreign stock exchange). Our Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Entin has the requisite “financial expertise” while Ms. Livni has “professional expertise” as required of our external directors under the Companies Law. Audit Committee The Companies Law requires public companies to appoint an audit committee. The responsibilities of the audit committee include identifying irregularities in the management of the company’s business, approving related party transactions as required by law, and reviewing the quarterly and annual balance sheet reports and recommending their approval before our board or directors. An audit committee must consist of at least three directors, including all of the external directors of the company. The chairman of the board of directors, any director employed by or otherwise providing services to the company, and a controlling shareholder or any relative of a controlling shareholder, may not be a member of the audit committee. Under the Nasdaq rules, we are required to have at least three independent directors on the audit committee. In addition, Nasdaq requires that the members of the audit committee (a) not have any relationship to the company that may interfere with the exercise of their independence, and (b) must be financially literate. Under the Nasdaq rules and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the audit committee (i) has the sole authority and responsibility to select, evaluate, and, where appropriate, replace the company’s independent auditors, (ii) is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of the independent auditors for the purpose of preparing its audit report or related work, and (iii) is responsible for establishing procedures for (A) the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received by the company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, and (B) the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of the company of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. The audit committee is required to consult with management but may not delegate these responsibilities. In addition, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the audit committee is responsible, among other things, for the following: 57 — It has the sole authority to review in advance, and grant any appropriate pre-approvals of, (i) all audit and non-audit services to be provided by the independent auditors and (ii) all fees and other terms of engagement; — Review and discussion with management and the independent auditors of the company’s quarterly financial statements (including the independent auditors’ review of the quarterly financial statements) prior to any required submission to shareholders, the SEC, any stock exchange or the public; — Review and discussion with management and the independent auditors of the company’s annual audited financial statements prior to any required submission to shareholders, the SEC, any stock exchange or the public; — Recommendation to the board of directors, if appropriate, that the company’s annual audited financial statements be included in the company’s annual report; — Review and discussion with management of all disclosures made by the company concerning any material changes in the financial condition or operations of the company; — Review of disclosures made to the audit committee by the company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer during their certification process for the company’s annual report about any significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls or material weaknesses therein and any fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the company’s internal controls; and — Review and approval of all related-party transactions. As of the date of this annual report, Mr. David Golan, Ms. Eti Livni and Mr. Rami Entin are serving as members of our audit committee. Internal Auditor Under the Companies Law, a company’s board of directors must appoint an internal auditor, nominated by the audit committee. The role of the internal auditor is to examine, among other matters, whether the company’s actions comply with the law and orderly business procedure. Under the Companies Law, the internal auditor may be an employee of the company but not an office holder, or an affiliate, or a relative of an office holder or affiliate, and he may not be the company’s independent accountant or its representative. During November 2007, we appointed Fahn Kanne Control Management, a member firm of Grant Thornton, as our internal auditor, replacing Ernst & Young – Kost, Forer, Gabbay & Kasierer Business Risk Services, which informed us that it could not continue to serve as our internal auditor due to a conflict of interests arising from auditing services provided to third parties. Compensation of Executive Officers In lieu of appointing a separate Board committee with responsibility for setting appropriate compensation levels for our executive officers, our Board of Directors as a whole, including a majority of our independent directors (as determined pursuant to the Nasdaq rules), serves as the body with authority for establishing such compensation levels. In setting compensation levels, our Board is guided by the levels of compensation provided to executives in other companies in our industry and our home country, as adjusted to account for differences in size and other relevant distinguishing factors. 58 Directors’Severance Benefits Upon Termination of Employment Except for the employment agreement entered into by our subsidiary Cimatron Gibbs LLC with William Gibbs in his role on behalf of such subsidiary (as described below in “Item 7- Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions”) we have not entered into any service contracts with any members of our Board of Directors that provide for specific benefits upon termination of employment. Other than any termination notice provisions under Mr. Gibbs’ employment contract, the only severance pay benefits that may be provided are required under Israeli law and are described below in the section titled “Employees”. Employees The following table sets forth for the last three financial years, the number of our employees broken down into categories. Period ending December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Research and Development 78 56 56 Marketing, Sales and Customer Support 198 173 124 Administration Management and Information Systems 25 22 17 Total 301 251 197 As of May 31, 2009, we employed 298 full-time personnel, of whom 76 (most of whom hold advanced technical degrees) were employed in research and development, 197 were employed in marketing, sales and customer support and 25 were employed in various administrative, information systems and management positions. Of these employees, 83 were employed in Israeli operations, 5 were employed in Russia, 15 were employed by our original North American subsidiary, Cimatron Technologies Inc., 64 were employed by Cimatron Gibbs LLC (the surviving entity in the merger with Gibbs) in North America, 38 were employed by our German subsidiary, 45 were employed by our Italian subsidiary, 39 were employed by our Chinese subsidiaries, 1 was employed by our Indian subsidiary and 8 were employed by our Korean subsidiary. In addition, we employed 9 subcontractors’ or free-lance personnel on average during the year 2008, and as of May 31, 2009 we employed 9 subcontractors personnel. 59 Certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut (General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations (including the Industrialists’ Associations) are applicable to our employees in Israel by order of the Israeli Ministry of Labor. These provisions concern principally the length of the workday; minimum daily wages for professional workers, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing employees, determination of severance pay and other conditions of employment. We generally provide our employees with benefits and working conditions beyond the required minimums. In addition to salary and other benefits, certain of our marketing personnel are paid commissions based on our performance in certain territories worldwide. Israeli law generally requires severance pay, which may be funded by Managers’ Insurance described below, upon the retirement or death of an employee or termination of employment without cause (as defined in the law). The payments thereto amount to approximately 8.33% of wages. Furthermore, Israeli employees and employers are required to pay predetermined sums to the National Insurance Institute, which is similar to the United States Social Security Administration. Such amounts also include payments by the employee for national health insurance. The total payments to the National Insurance Institute are equal to approximately 17.43% of the employee’s wages (up to a specified amount), of which the employee contributes approximately 69% and the employer contributes approximately 31%. A general practice that we follow, which, as of May 2006, is also legally required, is the contribution of funds on behalf of our employees to a fund known as “Managers’ Insurance.” This fund provides a combination of savings plan, insurance and severance pay benefits to the employee, giving the employee payments upon retirement or death and securing the severance pay, if legally entitled, upon termination of employment. While prior to May 2006 we could decide whether each employee was entitled to participate in the plan, after that date, we are required to enable participation of all employees in the plan. Each employee is required to contribute an amount equal to 5% of his or her basic salary per month for the managers insurance and we contribute an additional amount equal to between 13.3% and 15.8% of the monthly basic salary. Share Ownership 1998 Share Option Plan In April 1998, our Board of Directors adopted a share option plan (the “1998 Share Option Plan”) pursuant to which 620,000 Ordinary Shares were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options to be granted to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. The 1998 Share Option Plan is administered by our Board, which designates the optionees and dates of grant. The exercise price of an option granted under the 1998 Share Option Plan may be no less than 85% of the fair market value of an Ordinary Share, as determined by the Board on the date that the option is granted. Options granted vest over a period determined by the Board, terminate three years after they become exercisable, and are non-assignable except by the laws of descent. The Board has the authority to amend the terms of option grants, provided that any such amendment is in the best interest of a grantee. A grantee will be responsible for all personal tax consequences of a grant and the exercise thereof. In March 2000, the Board adopted new guidelines for the grant and exercise of options to purchase Ordinary Shares reserved for issuance under the 1998 Share Option Plan. In August 2003, the Board of Directors approved the grant of options to purchase 150,000 of the Company’s shares at a price of $2.50 per share to two officers of the Company. These options are exercisable commencing one year after the date of grant at a rate of 25% per year, subject to the continued employment of the officers. As of December 31, 2008, 25,000 such options were outstanding at a price of $2.50 per share. For additional information relating to the stock options granted by us under the 1998 Share Option Plan, see Note 12(B) to our financial statements included in Item 18. 60 As of May 31, 2009, no options were outstanding under the 1998 Share Option Plan. In addition, no shares are reserved for future issuances under that plan, as such reserve has been previously transferred into the 2004 Share Option Plan (as defined below). 2004 Share Option Plan In October 2004, our Board of Directors and shareholders adopted the 2004 Share Option and Restricted Shares Incentive Plan (the “2004 Share Option Plan”) pursuant to which 240,000 Ordinary Shares were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options to be granted to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. The 2004 Share Option Plan is administered by our Board, which designates the optionees and dates of grant. The exercise price of an option granted under the 2004 Share Option Plan may be no less than 95% of the fair market value of an Ordinary Share, as determined by the Board on the date that an option is granted. Options granted vest over a period determined by the Board, terminate ten years from the date of grant, unless otherwise determined by the Board, and are non-assignable except by the laws of descent. The Board has the authority to amend the terms of the 2004 Share Option Plan, provided that any such amendment does not adversely effect any options granted thereunder. In February 2005, 238,500 options were granted to employees of the Company under the 2004 Share Option Plan at an exercise price of $2.20 per share and with a term of ten years, and in August 2005, our Board of Directors approved the grant of an additional 32,000 options under the plan, at an exercise price of $2.00 per share and a term of 10 years, to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. In December 2005, our Board of Directors increased the 2004 Share Option Plan reserve by an additional 250,000 shares. In May 2006 an additional 189,000 options were granted to Company employees under the 2004 Share Option Plan at exercise prices ranging from $1.75-$2.00 and with a term of five years. During August 2007, the Company granted an additional 74,000 options to Company employees at an exercise price of $2.78 and with a term of five years. During January 2008, the Company granted an additional 68,000 options to Company employees at an exercise price of $2.75 and with a term of five years, including 2,000 options to William F. Gibbs. All options granted under the 2004 Share Option Plan are exercisable pursuant to a three (3) year vesting schedule, as follows: (i) thirty three percent (33%) of the options become exercisable on the first anniversary of the grant date; and (ii) sixteen and one-half percent (16.5%) of the options become exercisable at the end of each subsequent six month period over the course of the following two (2) years, subject to the continued employment of each grantee by the Company and/or its subsidiaries. Each grantee is responsible for all personal tax consequences of a grant and the exercise thereof. We intend to grant additional options under the 2004 Share Option Plan to our various directors, executive officers and employees. 61 In November 2007, our Board of Directors approved the transfer of a pool of 618,500 unallocated options from the 1998 Share Option Plan to the 2004 Share Option Plan for future grants. At May 31, 2009 options to purchase 579,916 of our Ordinary Shares were available for grants to our various directors, officers, employees and consultants under the 2004 Share Option Plan. Repurchase of Our Shares We repurchased 161,100 of our shares in the open market during 2002 and 2003 at an average price of $0.95 per share. Under Israeli law, while these shares are considered to be part of our outstanding share capital that can be reissued by us in the future, they are “dormant shares” and as such they cannot be voted and do not provide any other rights, other than upon liquidation. On June 4, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the use of up to $1 million of our available cash to repurchase our Ordinary Shares. Under the repurchase program, share purchases may be made from time to time at the discretion of management in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending on market conditions, share price, trading volume and other factors. Such purchases are to be made in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The repurchase program has no time limit, does not require us to acquire a specific number of shares, and may be suspended from time to time or discontinued. As of May 31, 2009, we have repurchased 220,856 of our shares pursuant to this repurchase plan at an average price of $1.33 per share. Beneficial Ownership by Officers and Directors Messrs. Ben Shalom, Dotan and Rosenthal may each (subject to the disclaimer provided in footnote (3) to the table in Item 7 below) may be deemed to have beneficial ownership of an aggregate of 4,265,950 of our Ordinary Shares, representing 46.6% of our issued and outstanding share capital, by virtue of their positions with DBSI. As indicated in the table appearing in Item 7 below, Mr. William F. Gibbs beneficially holds 1,500,666 or 16.4% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, which include 666 shares issuable upon exercise of options that are currently exercisable or will be exercisable within 60 days of June 30, 2009. As to our remaining Board members, each of David Golan, Eti Livni and Rami Entin beneficially holds no Ordinary Shares. Among our executive officers, each of Dan Haran, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Ilan Erez, our Chief Financial Officer, beneficially holds less than 1.0% of our Ordinary Shares (after including shares that are issuable to them upon exercise of options that are either currently exercisable or will be exercisable within 60 days of June 30, 2009). The options held by each of our directors and executive officers are subject to the terms (including exercise price and expiration date) described above in the description of option grants under our 1998 Share Option Plan and 2004 Share Option Plan. The Ordinary Shares held (or issuable upon exercise of options held) by our directors and executive officers do not have voting rights that differ from those enjoyed by all holders of our Ordinary Shares. 62 Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. Major Shareholders The following table sets forth information, as of May 31, 2009, concerning the beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of our Ordinary Shares by (i) any person who is known to us to own at least 5% of the Ordinary Shares of our Company and (ii) all of our directors and executive officers as a group. The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of all other holders of our Ordinary Shares. Name and Address Number of Ordinary Shares Percent of Ordinary Shares DBSI Investments Ltd. 85 Medinat Hayehudim St. Herzliya, Israel 4,265,950 46.0 % William F. Gibbs 4017 N. Cedarpine Lane Moonpark, CA 93021 California, U.S 1,500,666 (1) 16.2 % 3Kotek 2 B.V. Wielewaaleg 1, 4791, PD, Klundert, Netherlands 894,360 (2) 9.7 % All directors and executive officers as a group (9 persons) 5,885,605 (1)(3) 63.5 % (1) Includes an aggregate of 1,500,000 Ordinary Shares and 666 options to purchase Ordinary Shares beneficially held by William F. Gibbs. (2) Of such 894,360 Ordinary Shares reported in this Statement, 854,360 Ordinary Shares are held by Kotek and 40,000 Ordinary Shares are held by a company wholly owned by Mr. Joel Koschitzki. Messrs. Jaap Stomp and Mr. Joel Koschitzki are the directors of Kotek and therefore may be deemed to beneficially own the Ordinary Shares held by Kotek. Messrs. Stomp and Koschitzki disclaim beneficial ownership of the Ordinary Shares held by Kotek. (3) Includes an aggregate of 4,265,950 shares beneficially held by DBSI Investments Ltd. (“DBSI”), which may be attributable to certain of our directors by virtue of the positions that they hold on the board of directors of DBSI. All of our directors to whom such share ownership may be attributable disclaim such beneficial ownership. (Mr. Rosenthal in particular does not share in the equity ownership of DBSI). Recent Significant Changes in the Percentage Ownership of Major Shareholders On May 11, 2008, Koonras, a subsidiary of Polar Communications Ltd. and a then-current holder of approximately 27% of our Ordinary Shares, signed an agreement with DBSI pursuant to which Koonras was to sell to DBSI 1,700,000 Ordinary Shares (comprising approximately 18% of our outstanding share capital) at a price per share of $2.80. As a result of the consummation of such transaction on or about June 26, 2008, Koonras’ holdings were reduced to 854,360 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 9.1% of our share capital at the time. As a result of its acquisition of shares in such transaction, DBSI currently holds approximately 46.6% of our outstanding share capital. 63 On June 3, 2008, Koonras sold its remaining 854,360 Ordinary Shares that it then held to Kotek, a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands,. As a result of the consummation of such transaction, Koonras is no longer a holder of our capital stock, and Kotek acquired an approximate 9.1% interest in our share capital. As a result of Koonras’ dispositions of the remaining Ordinary Shares of our stock that it held, Koonras and DBSI terminated the shareholders agreement to which they had previously been party. Under the agreement, each of Koonras and DBSI effectively had the ability to control the outcome of most matters that were submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our Board of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions (subject to applicable limitations imposed by US securities laws and regulations and the Israeli Companies Law, including with respect to matters for which either such shareholder was deemed to possess a personal interest), as each of Koonras and DBSI was entitled to appoint one-half of our directors, not including our external directors, and each of them had agreed to vote together at our shareholders’ meetings. Record Holders As of June 8, 2009, there were 31 record holders of our Ordinary Shares, of which 17 represented United States record holders owning an aggregate of approximately 47% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares. 64 Related Party Transactions Services Agreement and Lease Agreement Until February 2002, our former principal shareholder Zeevi Computers and Technology Ltd., or ZCT, provided us with certain corporate and administrative services, including, but not limited to, executive management, facilities and other such services as were agreed upon from time to time between us and ZCT. The primary executive management services that we received under the agreement represented the services of the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of ZCT, who did not receive separate fees for such services. Pursuant to such agreement, we shared the expenses relating to the specific services we received from ZCT with the other subsidiaries of ZCT that also received such services from ZCT. As of February 21, 2002, in connection with its sale of its equity interest in the Company to Koonras and DBSI, ZCT assigned all rights and obligations under the foregoing services agreement to Koonras and DBSI. An assignment of this agreement to Koonras and DBSI was ratified by our shareholders on July 11, 2002. Following the consummation of the sale of 1,700,000 of our shares from Koonras to DBSI on June 24, 2008, and the related approval of our shareholders at such time, the management services agreement was assigned in full to DBSI, which will continue to provide all the services and receive the entire annual fee. The amount that we paid for services under this agreement totaled 1.706 million NIS in the year ended December 31, 2008. Prior to the merger with Cimatron, Gibbs System, Inc. leased office space in Moonpark, California from a limited liability corporation controlled by Mr. Gibbs. In connection with the merger with Gibbs System, Inc. and the assignment of the lease to us in 2008, we entered into an amendment to the original terms of the lease, pursuant to which the expiration date for the term of the lease was brought forward from 2020 to December 31, 2012, with an option for us to extend the lease for an additional 5 years. Also a result of the lease amendment, the rent that we are obligated to payduring the initial term of the lease is $24,710 per month (in lieu of $22,464 per month). Registration Rights In October 2004, following approval by our Board of Directors, our audit committee and the requisite majority of our disinterested shareholders, in accordance with the related party transaction requirements of Israeli law, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Koonras and DBSI, then our two largest shareholders. Under the agreement, Koonras and DBSI had the right, subject to various conditions and limitations, to require us to file a registration statement for the resale of their shares or to include their shares in certain registration statements that we file. On June 3, 2008, in connection with the sale of certain of its Ordinary Shares to Kotek, Koonras assigned to Kotek all registration rights applicable to such shares under the registration rights agreement. In January 2008, in connection with the merger agreement with Gibbs System, Inc., we granted to Mr. Gibbs certain registration rights with respect to the Ordinary Shares issued to him as part of the mergerconsideration. The grant of such registration rights was approved by our Board. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into with him, Mr. Gibbs has the right, subject to various conditions and limitations, to include his shares in certain registration statements that we file. 65 Demand Registration Rights Under the above-described registration rights agreement with DBSI and Kotek (as successor to Koonras), DBSI and Kotek together, and pro-rata between themselves, are entitled to up to two demand registrations on Form F-1 (or an equivalent form) promulgated under the Securities Act at our expense, provided that the anticipated aggregate offering price for the shares to be registered, net of any underwriting discounts and commissions, exceeds US$1,000,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we are not required to effect a demand registration during the period starting with the date of filing of, and ending on the date that is one hundred eighty (180) days following the effective date of, a registration statement pertaining to our securities. DBSI and Kotek, together, and pro-rata between themselves, also have the right to require us to effect up to four F-3 registrations, including for an offering to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act registering for resale from time to time by such holders of all of their shares (a “Shelf Registration Statement”), but no more than two such registrations in any 12 month period, in each case, at our expense, provided, however, that we are not required to bear the cost of more than one counsel for such holders. Under his registration rights agreement with us, Mr. Gibbs has the right to require us to effect up to two F-3 registrations, under substantially the same terms specified above. We are required to use our best efforts to (a) cause a Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act within three months after the “demand” is made and (b) keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act until the expiration of five (5) years from the date that a Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC. Piggyback Registration If (but without any obligation to do so) we propose to register for our own account any of our capital stock or other securities under the Securities Act in connection with a public offering of such securities solely for cash (subject to certain exceptions, such as the registration of employees options), then DBSI, Kotek and Mr. Gibbs shall be entitled to include their shares in such registration. The underwriter of any such offering by us shall have the right to reduce the number of shares proposed to be registered in light of market conditions, and in such event (a) the capital stock that we propose to register shall have first priority for inclusion in the relevant registration statement, and following our priority, (b) DBSI, Kotek and Mr. Gibbs shall have priority (pro rata among them) to have their shares included in such registration, before any other shares are included. 66 Employment Agreement with William F. Gibbs In connection with the merger with Gibbs in January 2008, Cimatron Gibbs LLC, our subsidiary into which the Gibbs business was merged, entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Gibbs. The employment agreement provides, among others, for (i) an annual base salary of USD $160,000, (ii) an annual bonus based on increases in contribution to our sales in North America and to the sale of Gibbs products, and (iii) other fringe benefits as customary for comparable officers of the Company group in the United States. Mr. Gibbs also signed non-compete undertakings for our benefit. On February 15, 2008, we announced that Mr. Gibbs was appointed as President North America, replacing Mr. Sam Golan. Mr. Gibbs, who continues to maintain his position as President and CEO of Cimatron Gibbs, is now responsible for promoting both Cimatron E and GibbsCAM product lines in North America. In addition, pursuant to an option grant approved in January 2008, Mr. Gibbs was granted 2,000 options to purchase our Ordinary Shares. Item 8. Financial Information. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information Our consolidated financial statements and other financial information are included in this annual report in “Item 18 – Financial Statements”. Legal Proceedings On May 9, 2007, Collins & Aikman Corporation (“Collins & Aikman”), on behalf of itself and certain related parties, filed a complaint with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Detroit, Michigan against our wholly owned subsidiary, Cimatron Technologies, Inc. On May 17, 2005 the plaintiffs had filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. In their complaint against our subsidiary, the plaintiffs demanded repayment of an amount of $318,515 that had been paid to Cimatron Technologies, Inc., plus interest and expenses, on the basis that, among other things, such payment had been made within ninety days preceding the plaintiff’s bankruptcy petition date. The payment to our subsidiary had been made primarily in consideration for software delivered to Collins & Aikman, and, to a negligible extent, for services and maintenance provided to Collins & Aikman. Our subsidiary engaged local counsel to vigorously oppose such claim. During March 2008, the parties reached a settlement agreement pursuant to which our subsidiary agreed to pay an amount of $5,000 in return for plaintiff’s waiving and releasing our subsidiary from any and all claims. Dividend Distribution Policy Certain of our enterprises are Approved Enterprises (as defined under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959). In the event of a distribution to shareholders of cash dividends out of earnings subject to the exemption from the payment of corporate tax provided to an Approved Enterprise, we would be subject to tax at a rate of 25%. In our financial statements, we have not provided an allowance for deferred taxes on future distributions of tax-exempt earnings, as our management and Board of Directors have determined not to make any distribution that may result in such tax liability to the Company. Accordingly, such earnings have been considered to be permanently reinvested. Our tax-exempt earnings may be distributed to shareholders without subjecting the Company to taxes only upon a complete liquidation of the Company. 67 Significant Changes Since the date of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report, there has not been a significant change in our Company other than as described in the notes to such financial statements (and as described immediately below).. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees – Repurchase of Our Shares” for additional details regarding the Company’s ongoing repurchase of shares. In February 2009, our German subsidiary, Cimatron GmbH, hired the former key employees of Gibbs’ German reseller. As part of the agreements entered into, Cimatron GmbH also undertook to rent the office space that Gibbs’ German reseller had been utilizing for a period of five years commencing in February 2009. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. Offer and listing details Our Ordinary Shares were quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market System (formerly the Nasdaq National Market) from March 1996 until April 17, 2001, from which time our Ordinary Shares have been quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market). Through April 16, 2000, we were quoted under the symbol CIMTF and since April 17, 2000 we have been quoted under the symbol CIMT. The Ordinary Shares are not listed on any other stock exchange and have not been publicly traded outside the United States. The table below sets forth the high and low bid prices of the Ordinary Shares, as reported by NASDAQ during the indicated fiscal periods: Period High (U.S. $) Low (U.S. $) Six most recent months: May 2009 1.18 0.80 April 2009 0.91 0.76 March 2009 0.98 0.72 February 2009 1.08 0.83 January 2009 1.33 0.81 December 2008 1.04 0.71 Two most recent full financial years and subsequent periods: First Quarter 2009 1.33 0.56 Fourth Quarter 2008 1.64 0.65 Third Quarter 2008 2.35 1.50 Second Quarter 2008 3.06 1.58 First Quarter 2008 3.98 2.53 Forth Quarter 2007 3.06 2.13 Third Quarter 2007 2.50 1.83 Second Quarter 2007 4.58 2.00 First Quarter 2007 3.30 1.34 Five most recent years: 2008 3.98 0.65 2007 4.58 1.34 2006 1.73 1.00 2005 2.14 1.05 2004 2.95 1.25 68 Markets Our shares are traded only on the Nasdaq Capital Market, where they are listed and traded under the symbol “CIMT”. Item 10. Additional Information. Memorandum and Articles of Association Register Cimatron’s registration number at the Israeli registrar of companies is 52-004267-2. Articles of Association; Israeli Companies Law In December 2006, our shareholders adopted amended and restated articles of association (the “Articles”) which replaced in their entirety our previous articles of association, which were approved prior to the adoption of the Companies Law and were not always consistent with the provisions of the Companies Law. Our objective as stated in our Articles and in our Memorandum of Association is to engage in any lawful activity. We currently have only one class of securities outstanding, our Ordinary Shares, par value NIS 0.10 per share. No preferred shares are currently authorized. Holders of Ordinary Shares have one vote per share, and are entitled to participate equally in the payment of dividends and share distributions and, in the event of our liquidation, in the distribution of assets after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors. Our Articles may be amended by a resolution approved at a General Meeting by a majority of the shares present and voting thereon (excluding abstained votes). Our shareholders’ rights may not be modified in any other way unless otherwise expressly provided in the terms of issuance of the shares. 69 Our Articles require that we hold our annual general meeting of shareholders each year no later than 15 months from the last annual meeting, at a time and place determined by our Board of Directors, upon at least 21 days prior notice to our shareholders. No business may be commenced in any annual meeting until a quorum of two or more shareholders holding at least 33% of the voting rights are present in person or by proxy. Shareholders may vote in person or by proxy, and will be required to prove title to their shares as required by the Companies Law pursuant to procedures established by our Board of Directors. Resolutions regarding the following matters must be passed at a general meeting of shareholders: — amendments to our Articles; — appointment or termination of our auditors; — appointment and dismissal of directors; — approval of acts and transactions requiring general meeting approval under the Companies Law; — increase or reduction of our authorized share capital or the rights of shareholders or a class of shareholders; — any merger as provided in Section 320 of the Companies Law; — the exercise of our Board of Directors’ powers by a general meeting, if the Board of Directors is unable to exercise its powers and the exercise of any of such powers is vital for our proper management, as provided in Section 52(a) of the Companies Law. In addition, the Companies Law provides that an extraordinary meeting of our shareholders shall be convened by the Board, at the request of any two directors or one quarter of the directors, or by request of one or more shareholders holding at least 5% of our issued share capital and 1% of the voting rights, or by request of one or more shareholders holding at least 5% of the voting rights. Shareholders requesting a special meeting must submit their proposed resolution(s) with their request. Our Articles provide that our Board of Directors may from time to time, at its discretion, borrow or secure the payment of any sum of money for the objectives of the Company. Our directors may raise or secure the repayment of such sum in a manner, time and terms as they see fit. According to our Articles, our Board of Directors may delegate any authority it has to a committee comprised of members of the Board. Any committee to whom the Board’s powers are delegated must abide by the regulations enacted by the Board in respect of such delegated powers. In the absence of any such regulations, the committee must abide by our Articles. Our Board has currently appointed one committee, which is our Audit Committee, as described above in Item 6. 70 Transactions with Certain Shareholders The Companies Law codifies the fiduciary duties that “office holders,” including directors and executive officers, owe to a company. An office holder, is defined in the Companies Law, as a (i) director, (ii) general manager, (iii) chief business manager, (iv) deputy general manager, (v) vice general manager, (vi) executive vice president, (vii) vice president, (viii) another manager directly subordinate to the managing director or (ix) any other person assuming the responsibilities of any of the forgoing positions without regard to such person’s title. The duty of care prescribed by the Companies Law requires an office holder to act with the level of care, which a reasonable office holder in the same position would have acted under the same circumstances. The duty of loyalty prescribed by the Companies Law generally requires an office holder to act in good faith and for the good of the company. The Companies Law requires that an office holder of a company promptly disclose any personal interest that he or she may have and all related material information known to him or her, in connection with any existing or proposed transaction by the company. In addition, if the transaction is an extraordinary transaction, as defined under Israeli law, the office holder must also disclose any personal interest held by the office holder’s spouse, siblings, parents, grandparents, descendants, spouse’s descendants and the spouses of any of the foregoing, or by any corporation in which the office holder is a 5% or greater shareholder, holder of 5% or more of the voting power, director or general manager or in which he or she has the right to appoint at least one director or the general manager. An extraordinary transaction is defined as a transaction not in the ordinary course of business, not on market terms, or that is likely to have a material impact on the company’s profitability, assets or liabilities. In the case of a transaction that is not an extraordinary transaction, after the office holder complies with the above disclosure requirement, only board approval is required unless the articles of association of the company provide otherwise. The transaction must not be adverse to the company’s interest. If the transaction is an extraordinary transaction, then, in addition to any approval required by the articles of association, it must also be approved by the audit committee and by the board of directors, and, under specified circumstances, by a meeting of the shareholders. Agreements regarding directors’ terms of employment require the approval of the audit committee, the board of directors and the shareholders. In all matters in which a director has a personal interest, including matters of his/her terms of employment, he/she shall not be permitted to vote on the matter or be present in the meeting in which the matter is considered. However, should a majority of the audit committee or of the board of directors have a personal interest in the matter then: — all of the directors shall be permitted to vote on the matter and attend the meeting in which the matter is considered; and — the matter requires approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. According to the Companies Law, the disclosure requirements discussed above also apply to a controlling shareholder of a public company. In general, extraordinary transactions with a controlling shareholder or in which a controlling shareholder has a personal interest, and agreements relating to employment and compensation terms of a controlling shareholder, require the approval of the audit committee, the board of directors and the shareholders of the company. The term “controlling shareholder” is defined as a shareholder who has the ability to direct the activities of a company, other than if this power derives solely from the shareholder’s position on the board of directors or any other position with the company. The definition also includes shareholders that hold 25% or more of the voting rights if no other shareholder owns more than 50% of the voting rights in the company. 71 The shareholder approval must either include at least one-third of the shares held by disinterested shareholders who are present in person or by proxy at the meeting and who are voting thereon, or, alternatively, the total shareholdings of the disinterested shareholders who vote against the transaction must not represent more than one percent of the voting rights in the company. In addition, a private placement of securities that (i) includes the issuance of twenty percent or more of the company’s outstanding voting rights (prior to such issuance) in which the consideration, in whole or in part, is not in cash or registered securities or is not at market value, and as a result of which a person holding five percent of more of the company’s share capital or voting rights will increase or that will cause any person to become, as a result of the issuance, a holder of more than five percent of the company’s outstanding share capital, or (ii) will cause any person to become, as a result of the issuance, a controlling shareholder of the company (as defined above), requires approval by the board of directors and the shareholders of the company. The regulations under the Companies Law provide certain exceptions. Any placement of securities that does not fit the above description may be issued at the discretion of the board of directors. Under the Companies Law, a shareholder has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in connection with voting in the general meeting of shareholders on the following matters: — any amendment to the articles of association; — an increase of the company's authorized share capital; — a merger; or — approval of interested party transactions that require shareholder approval. In addition, any controlling shareholder, any shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote and any shareholder who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder of the company is under a duty to act with fairness towards the company. The Companies Law does not describe the substance of this duty, except to state that the remedies generally available upon a breach of contract will apply also in the event of a breach of the duty to act with fairness. Limitation on Ownership of Securities The ownership and voting of our Ordinary Shares by non-residents of Israel are not restricted in any way by our Articles of Association or by the laws of the State of Israel, except for shareholders who are subjects of countries which are in a state of war with Israel. 72 Mergers and Acquisitions; Anti-Takeover Provisions The Companies Law includes provisions with respect to the approval of corporate mergers that are applicable to us. These provisions require that the board of directors of each company that is party to the merger approve the transaction. In addition, the shareholders of each company must approve the merger by a vote of the majority of the company’s shares, present and voting on the proposed merger at a shareholders’ meeting. In determining whether the requisite majority has approved the merger, shares held by the other party to the merger or any person holding at least 25% of such other party or otherwise affiliated with such other party are excluded from the vote. The Companies Law does not require court approval of a merger other than in specified situations. However, upon the request of a creditor of either party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties of the merger to their creditors. A merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a proposal of the merger was filed with the Israeli Registrar of Companies by each merging company and 30 days from the date that shareholder approval of both merging companies was obtained. The merger proposal may be filed once a shareholder meeting has been called to approve the merger. The Companies Law also provides that the acquisition of shares in a public company on the open market must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% shareholder of the company. The rule does not apply if there already is another 25% shareholder of the company. Similarly, the law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% shareholder of the company, unless there already is a 45% shareholder of the company. If, following any acquisition of shares, the purchaser would hold 90% or more of the shares of the company, that acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the target company’s shares. An acquirer who wishes to eliminate all minority shareholders must do so by means of a tender offer and acquire 95% of all shares not held by or for the benefit of the acquirer prior to the acquisition. However, in the event that the tender offer to acquire that 95% is not successful, the acquirer may not acquire tendered shares if by doing so the acquirer would own more than 90% of the shares of the target company. Material Contracts Other than the registration rights agreements, the service agreement and lease agreement described in “Item 6 – Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions,” our current lease agreement described below, and the Microsystems investment contracts and the merger agreement between our subsidiary and Gibbs, both of which are described in “