Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Other events that the Company does not currently anticipate or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may affect results of operations and financial condition. Sales Force Factors The Company’s products are marketed and sold through the direct selling method of distribution, in which products are primarily marketed and sold by a sales force made up of independent contractors to consumers without the use of retail establishments. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large force of sales personnel to compensate for a high turnover rate. The recruitment and retention of sales force members is dependent upon the competitive environment among direct sellers and upon the general labor market, unemployment levels, general economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of the sales force is dependent in part upon the effectiveness of compensation and promotional programs of the Company, the competitiveness of the same compared with other direct selling companies, the introduction of new products, and the ability to advance through the sales force structure. The Company’s sales are directly tied to the activity levels of its sales force, which in large part is a temporary working activity for sales force members. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of the Company’s sales force, the amount of average sales per product demonstration, the amount of sales per sales force member and the mix of high-margin and low-margin products sold at product demonstrations and elsewhere, and the activities and actions of the Company’s product line and channel competitors. In addition, the Company’s sales force members may be affected by initiatives undertaken by the Company to grow the revenue base of the Company and the inaccurate perception that the independent sales force system is at risk of being phased out. Legal and Regulatory Issues The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has proposed business opportunity regulations which may have an effect upon the Company’s method of operating in the United States, but such regulations are in the early stages of development and it is not possible to gauge the impact or the effective date at this time. The Company’s business may also be affected by the actions of governments to restrict the activities of direct selling companies for various reasons, including the limitation on the ability of direct selling companies to operate through direct sales without the involvement of a traditional retail channel. Foreign governments may also seek to require that non-domestic companies doing or seeking to do business place a certain percentage of ownership of legal entities in the hands of local nationals to protect the commercial interests of its citizens. 9 Table of Contents Customs laws, tariffs, import duties, export quotas and restrictions on repatriation of foreign earnings may negatively affect the Company’s international operations. Governments may seek either to impose taxes on independent sales force members or to classify independent sales force members as employees of direct selling companies with whom they may be associated, triggering employment-related taxes on the part of the direct selling companies. The U.S. Federal government may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to engage in business in a foreign country in connection with the foreign policy of the United States. Product Safety The materials used in the Company’s product lines may give rise to concerns of consumers based upon scientific theories which are espoused from time to time, including the risk of certain materials leaching out of plastic containers used for their intended purposes or the ingredients used in cosmetics or personal care products causing harm to human health. It is the Company’s policy to use only those materials or ingredients which are approved by relevant regulatory authorities for contact with food or skin or for ingestion by consumers, as applicable. General Business Factors The Company’s business can be affected by a wide range of factors that affect other businesses. Weather, natural disasters, strikes and political instability may have a significant impact on the willingness or ability of consumers to attend product demonstrations or otherwise purchase the Company’s products. The supply and cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum and natural gas-based products, may have an impact on the availability or profitability of the Company’s plastic products. The Company is also subject to frequent counterfeiting and intellectual property infringement, which may be difficult to police and prevent, dependent upon the existence and enforceability of laws affording protection to Company property. Other risks, as discussed under the sub-heading “Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Report under the heading “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” may be relevant to performance as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 