Risk Factors This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Business We face intensive competition in our industry. The CAD/CAM software industry, characterized by rapid advances in technology and changing customer requirements, is highly competitive. We design, develop, manufacture, market and support a family of modular, high performance, fully integrated, computer-aided design/computer aided manufacturing, or CAD/CAM, software products. Traditionally, our competitors in the CAD/CAM market are at both the high and low end of the market. The lower end of the market consists of dedicated Numerical Control, or NC, programming systems offerings, which have limited or no modeling capability, while the high end of the market, including our Cimatron E and GibbsCAM product families, consists of integrated CAD/CAM systems, Mill/Turn and Multi Task Machining software. Many high-end market products are roughly similar to our Cimatron E and GibbsCAM product lines. 5 As the CAD/CAM software industry is highly fragmented and characterized by many relatively small and privately owned companies, we face competition from numerous companies in relation to all of our products. In addition, some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than us. We believe that, due to the large number of companies that operate in this market, we do not have a single major competitor or a group of competitors. The principal factors permitting our products to compete successfully against our competitors’ products are: · the compatibility of our products with other software applications and existing and emerging industry standards; · our ongoing product and feature development; · the offering of unique innovative products to the tooling and manufacturing industries; · the level of our product breadth and integration; · the technical expertise and support that we provide; · the flexibility of our products; · the reputation we maintain among certain independent distributors of our products, to which we refer as Resellers; and · the relatively low overall price and total cost of ownership of our products combined with the high-end capabilities of our products. Although we believe that the attributes of our products provide us with a competitive advantage over our competitors, there can be no assurance that the marketplace will consider Cimatron E and/or GibbsCAM to be superior to existing competing products. In addition, new competitors may arise in each of the markets in which we currently operate. Furthermore, as we enter new geographic markets, we may encounter significant competition from companies that are more established in such markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our existing or future products will successfully compete against our competitors’ products. We are heavily reliant on the sale of two families of products. Sales and services related to the Cimatron E product family historically accounted for substantially all of our revenue. While we introduced the GibbsCAM product family following our merger with Gibbs System, Inc., or Gibbs System, in January 2008, if sales of the Cimatron E family and/or the GibbsCAM family were to decline, or fail to grow, or the profit margin on these products were to decrease significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends significantly upon sales by our customers of products in the consumer market. This market is extremely competitive and is highly susceptible to fluctuations in demand. Our products are designed for use by manufacturers of consumer products or consumer product components. The consumer products market is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Sales of consumer products have historically been dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers. Consumers may defer or alter purchasing decisions based on economic conditions or other factors, which, accordingly, could cause a reduction in demand for products manufactured by our customers. Softened consumer demand for consumer products has been causing a decline in the demand for our products. Global economic conditions, tight credit conditions and high unemployment, may cause a decrease in demand for our products. Softening in demand for consumer products has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty with respect to our expected revenues and has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our revenues and operating results. 6 Unfavorable economic and market conditions and reduced consumer spending have caused, and may continue to cause, decreased demand for our products and services and have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the effects of global, economic and market conditions. Many of the world’s largest economies and financial institutions are still experiencing sluggish economic activity, depressed asset prices, liquidity problems and limited availability of credit. Prevailing global and U.S. macroeconomic conditions such as inflation and the weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to many world currencies which make it more expensive to import consumer products into the U.S., as well as microeconomic conditions such as ongoing, tight local credit markets which have been negatively impacting the ability of manufacturers to grow and obtain working capital from local lenders, have been negatively impacting, and may continue to negatively impact, our enterprise business. To the extent that our business continues to be adversely affected as a result of such unfavorable economic and market conditions, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. The crisis in world credit markets has had a particularly severe impact on financing in the manufacturing sector in which many of our customers operate and thereby threatens a continued reduction in our primary source of revenues. The primary consumers for our products and services are typically small to medium-sized companies involved in the mechanical engineering and manufacturing industry, subcontractors that supply major corporations within the core mechanical engineering and manufacturing industry and departments or divisions within these major corporations. The manufacturing industry has been particularly hard-hit by the global credit crisis, as manufacturers have found it very difficult to obtain the financing that they need in order to make capital expenditures for new hardware to be used in their operations. Because of the lack of financing for new hardware, manufacturers have had, and may continue to have, lesser demand for our software products and services, which are compatible with, and dependent upon, such hardware. This rippling effect has begun to have, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our primary source of revenues, thereby impacting our operating results and overall financial condition in a material, negative manner. Integration of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. In addition, the issuance by us of securities as consideration payable in such acquisitions could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. One of our strategies is to acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. For instance, over the course of the period from July 2005 through July 2008, we initiated and completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of our Italian distributor. During August 2006, we acquired the remaining 69.83% of the outstanding shares of our Korean distributor, which thereafter became a wholly owned subsidiary. In January 2008 we completed the merger of Gibbs System into a wholly owned subsidiary – Cimatron Gibbs LLC. As consideration in the merger with Gibbs System, we paid cash in the amount of approximately $5 million and we issued 1,500,000 of our Ordinary Shares. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview” for additional details. We may in the future engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, in the context of any future acquisition or investment in another company, we could experience difficulties assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings into our own or in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Any such difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore we cannot provide assurance that we will realize the benefits and/or synergies of any business combination with another company. In addition, we may incur indebtedness or dilute our existing shareholders by issuing equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. 7 We are subject to several risks as a result of our international sales. To date, our products have been sold primarily in Europe, the Far East, North America and Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our business. Companies that engage in international sales are subject to a number of risks, such as: · agreements may be difficult to enforce through a foreign company’s legal system; · foreign countries could impose additional withholding or other taxes on our income; · foreign countries could impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; · fluctuations in exchange rates; · changes in general economic conditions in one or more countries could affect product demand; · the protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries may be limited or more difficult to enforce (such as in certain countries in the Far East and China, in particular, as described below); and · difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations, including difficulty in retaining or replacing local management. There can be no assurance that these and similar factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, future prospects and results of operations. Many customers of the CAD/CAM industry have migrated their operations to the Far East. In order to remain competitive in the industry, we need to penetrate the Far East markets; operation in these markets subjects us to specific risks. Many mold, tool, die and fixture makers have migrated or intend to migrate their operations to markets in the Far East, such as China, in order to take advantage of the relatively lower cost of labor available in those markets for their manufacturing activities. We anticipate that this migration will continue. In order to continue to compete in the CAD/CAM software industry, we will need to increase our penetration of these markets. Many of those markets, including China, are characterized by lower prices and by higher usage of pirated copies of software products. While those markets are also often much larger than a number of our traditional markets in Europe, to the extent that we cannot offset the effects of lower prices and higher incidents of pirated software usage, our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. 8 We are reliant upon independent distributors to market and support our products. We rely on independent distributors, to whom we refer as Resellers, to market, sell, service and support our Cimatron E and GibbsCAM families of products, worldwide. Generally, our relationships with our Resellers are based on agreements with two-year terms (subject to rolling two-year extensions) and one year terms (subject to rolling one-year extensions) that enable Resellers of our Cimatron E and GibbsCAM products, respectively, to purchase our products at discounted prices. While we have exclusive relationships with certain of the Resellers of our Cimatron E products, and while certain Resellers of our GibbsCAM products function as our only “sales agent” in a single country or region (although without an exclusivity agreement), there can be no assurance that any of these Resellers will give high priority to the marketing and support of our products. The results of our operations could be adversely affected by changes in the financial condition of a Reseller, which could occur rapidly, or to other changes in our current Resellers’ business or marketing strategies. There can be no assurance that we will retain our current Resellers, nor can there be any assurance that, in the event that we lose any of our Resellers, we will be successful in recruiting other highly professional and technically competent Resellers to represent us. Any such changes in our distribution channels, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Given that approximately 90% of Gibbs System’s total revenues in 2007 resulted from sales made by Resellers, the merger with Gibbs System has increased our reliance on independent distributors, as approximately 35% of our consolidated revenues in each of 2008, 2009 and 2010 has been generated via our Resellers, in the aggregate. See “