Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Other events that the Company does not currently anticipate or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may affect results of operations and financial condition. Sales Force Factors The Company’s products are marketed and sold through the direct selling method of distribution, in which products are primarily marketed and sold by a sales force made up of independent contractors to consumers without the use of retail establishments. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large force of sales personnel to grow and compensate for a high turnover rate. The recruitment and retention of sales force members is dependent upon the competitive environment among direct sellers and upon the general labor market, unemployment levels, general economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of the sales force is dependent in part upon the effectiveness of compensation and promotional programs of the Company, the competitiveness of the same compared with other direct selling companies, the introduction of new products, and the ability to advance through the sales force structure. The Company’s sales are directly tied to the activity levels of its sales force, which in large part is a temporary working activity for sales force members. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of the Company’s sales force, the amount of average sales per party, the amount of sales per sales force member and the mix of high-margin and low-margin products sold at parties and elsewhere, and the activities and actions of the Company’s product line and channel competitors. In addition, the Company’s sales force members may be affected by initiatives undertaken by the Company to grow the revenue base of the Company and the inaccurate perception that the independent sales force system is at risk of being phased out. International Operations A significant portion of the Company’s sales and profit comes from its international operations. Although these operations are geographically dispersed, which partially mitigates the risks associated with operating in particular countries, the Company is subject to the usual risks associated with international operations. These risks include local political and economic environments, and relations between foreign and U.S. governments. The Company derives over 80 percent of its net sales from operations outside the United States. Because of this, movement in exchange rates may have a significant impact on the Company’s earnings, cash flows and financial position. The Company’s most significant exposures are to the euro and the Mexican peso, however the Company also has foreign exchange exposure in the South American, Asian, Australian, Russian and South African currencies, among others. Although this currency risk is partially mitigated by the natural hedge arising from the Company’s local product sourcing in many markets, a strengthening U.S. dollar generally has a negative 9 Table of Contents impact on the Company. In response to this fact, the Company continues to implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in earnings associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. Some of the hedging strategies implemented have a positive or negative impact on cash flows as foreign currencies fluctuate versus the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. Another risk associated with the Company’s international operations is restrictions foreign governments may impose on currency remittances. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, the Company may not be able to immediately repatriate its cash at the exchange rate used to translate its financial statements. If the Company is unable to repatriate its cash at the official exchange rate or if the official exchange rate devalues, it may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. The Company’s major markets for its products are Australia, China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa, the United States and Venezuela. A significant downturn in the Company’s business in these markets could adversely impact the Company’s ability to generate profit and/or operating cash flows. Legal and Regulatory Issues The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has proposed business opportunity regulations which may have a negative effect upon the Company’s method of operating in the United States, mainly by inhibiting the Company’s ability to attract and recruit sales force members, which is the Company’s primary means of distributing its product. In March 2008, the Federal Trade Commission issued a revised version of the proposed business opportunity regulations that are meant to exempt multi-level marketing businesses, such as Tupperware and BeautiControl, from the application of these regulations. It is currently unknown when final regulations may be provided and whether, in their final form, they will impact the Company’s operations. In the event final regulations were issued without an exemption for multi-level marketing businesses, the Company’s ability to attract and recruit sales force members could be impaired by two separate factors. First, if a seven-day cooling period was required before a new sales force member could begin to engage in sales, the delay could be a disincentive to the recruit from initial efforts to become an active seller, and the recruit might discontinue all efforts to participate. Second, if the regulations required the collection and disclosure of personal information regarding past or present sales force members, the Company’s efforts to recruit sales force members could be impaired by its inability either to obtain the information to disclose or to obtain the consent of the individual sales force members to disclose such information. The Company’s business may also be affected by other actions of governments to restrict the activities of direct selling companies for various reasons, including the limitation on the ability of direct selling companies to operate through direct sales without the involvement of a traditional retail channel. Foreign governments may also seek to require that non-domestic companies doing or seeking to do business place a certain percentage of ownership of legal entities in the hands of local nationals to protect the commercial interests of its citizens. Customs laws, tariffs, import duties, export quotas and restrictions on repatriation of foreign earnings may negatively affect the Company’s international operations. Governments may seek either to impose taxes on independent sales force members or to classify independent sales force members as employees of direct selling companies with whom they may be associated, triggering employment-related taxes on the part of the direct selling companies. The U.S. government may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to engage in business in a foreign country in connection with the foreign policy of the United States. Product Safety The materials used in the Company’s product lines may give rise to concerns of consumers based upon scientific theories which are espoused from time to time, including the risk of certain materials leaching out of 10 Table of Contents plastic containers used for their intended purposes or the ingredients used in cosmetics, personal care or nutritional products causing harm to human health. It is the Company’s policy to use only those materials or ingredients that are approved by relevant regulatory authorities for contact with food or skin or for ingestion by consumers, as applicable. General Business Factors The Company’s business can be affected by a wide range of factors that affect other businesses. Weather, natural disasters, strikes and political instability may have a significant impact on the willingness or ability of consumers to attend parties or otherwise purchase the Company’s products. The supply and cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum and natural gas-based resins, may have an impact on the availability or profitability of the Company’s plastic products. The Company is also subject to frequent counterfeiting and intellectual property infringement, which may be difficult to police and prevent, dependent upon the existence and enforceability of laws affording protection to Company property. Other risks, as discussed under the sub-heading “Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Part II, Item 7A of this Report, may be relevant to performance as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 