Item 1A Risk Factors See also, PART I, ITEM 1, BUSINESS. The following is a list of risk factors that affect the Company. They are not listed in any particular order or relative importance and no inferences should be given to the listing order. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company, its financial condition and/or operating results. The variability of the Company’s quarterly operating results can be significant. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and the Company may experience continued fluctuations in the future. Future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company. These factors include: the relatively large size of customer agreements; unpredictability in the number and timing of system sales and sales of applications hosting services; length of the sales cycle; delays in installations; changes in customers’ financial condition or budgets; increased competition; the development and introduction of new products and services; the loss of significant customers or remarketing partners; changes in government regulations, particularly as to the healthcare industry; the size and growth of the overall healthcare information technology markets; any liability and other claims that may be asserted against the Company; the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; national and local general economic and market conditions; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and any other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s sales have been concentrated in a small number of customers. The Company’s revenues have been concentrated in a relatively small number of large customers, and the Company has historically derived a substantial percentage of its total revenues from a few customers. There can be no assurance that a customer will not cancel all or any portion of a master agreement or delay installations. A termination or installation delay of one or more phases of an agreement, or the failure of Streamline Health to procure additional agreements, could have a material adverse effect on Streamline Health’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to direct sales, the Company relies on third party remarketing alliances for a substantial portion of its revenues. The Company seeks to expand its distribution channels by creating remarketing alliances with third parties who are engaged in the sale of healthcare information systems, medical records management and outsourcing, and other healthcare information technology and patient care solutions. GE Healthcare and Telus Health, the Company’s major remarketing partners, could choose to discontinue reselling Streamline Health products, and significant customers could elect to discontinue using the Company’s products. The Company needs to ensure that it expands its distribution channels to reduce the reliance on a single major reseller. If we are unable to maintain and grow the Company’s remarketing relationship with GE Healthcare or enter into new remarketing agreements, or similar alliances, failure to do so could be materially adverse to the growth of our base business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, Streamline Health learned of planned organizational changes by GE Healthcare which could adversely affect Streamline Health’s core technology’s sales. If Streamline Health’s existing remarketing agreement with GE Healthcare is terminated, or fails to generate future new business, or the Company is unable to enter other agreements with leading healthcare service providers; the Company may be unable to maintain or increase market presence. GE may have multiple relationships with other third-parties and GE may not regard the Company as significant to GE’s business. GE Healthcare may pursue relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products and services that compete with our products and services. GE Healthcare may formally terminate its relationship with the Company with little or no notice. 13 A significant increase in new application hosting services contacts could reduce near term profitability and require a significant cash outlay which could adversely affect near term cash flow. If new or existing customers purchase significant amounts of remote application hosting services, the Company may have to expend a significant amount of initial setup costs and time before those new customers are able to begin using such services, and the Company cannot begin to recognize revenues from those hosting agreements until the commencement of such services. Accordingly, the Company anticipates that its near term cash flow, revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by significant incremental setup costs from new hosted customers that would not be offset by revenue until new hosting customers go into production. While the Company anticipates long term growth in profitability through increases in recurring hosting subscription fees and significantly improved profit visibility, any inability to adequately finance setup costs for new application hosting services, could result in the failure to put new hosted services into production; and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Unsuccessful implementation of the Company’s products and services with our customers may harm our future financial success. The Company’s new customer projects could be complex and require lengthy and significant work to implement our products and services. Each customer’s situation may be different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the customer to meet respective implementation responsibilities. If the customer implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our customers may be adversely impacted and our results of operations could be impacted negatively. In addition, cancellation of any implementation of our products and services after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort and resources invested in the cancelled implementation as well as lost opportunity for acquiring other customers over that same period of time. If we are forced to reduce our prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The Company may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, and government action affecting reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other government health programs. The Company’s customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, because cash from sales funds some of our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need. The Company needs to manage its costs while planning for growth. The Company’s planned growth through its remote application hosting line of business could continue to place a significant strain on the Company’s cash flow. This could also strain the services and support operations, sales and administrative personnel and other resources as they are requested to handle the added work load with existing support resources. Streamline Health believes that it must continue to focus on these remote hosting services, develop new products, enhance existing solutions and serve the needs of its existing and anticipated customer base. The Company’s ability to successfully maintain and expand its operations will depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. The Company’s ability to manage its planned growth effectively also will require the Company to continue to improve its operational, management, and financial systems and controls, to train, motivate, and manage its employees and to judiciously manage its operating expenses in anticipation of increased future revenues. 14 Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. The potential impact on the Company of new or changes in existing federal, state, and local regulations governing healthcare information could be substantial. Healthcare regulations issued to date have not had a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. However, the Company cannot predict the potential impact of new or revised regulations that have not yet been released or made final, or any other regulations that might be adopted. Congress may adopt legislation that may change, override, conflict with, or preempt the currently existing regulations and which could restrict the ability of customers to obtain, use, or disseminate patient health information. Streamline Health believes that the features and architecture of its existing solutions are such that it currently supports or should be able to make the necessary modifications to its products, if required, to ensure support of HIPAA regulations, and other legislation or regulations, but there can be no assurances. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. Any material changes in the political, economic or regulatory healthcare environment that affect the group purchasing business or the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations, or that lead to consolidation in the healthcare industry, could require us to modify the Company’s services or reduce the funds available to providers to purchase our products and services. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend upon conditions affecting the healthcare industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. Our ability to grow will depend upon the economic environment of the healthcare industry generally as well as our ability to increase the number of solutions that we sell to our customers. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Factors such as changes in reimbursement policies for healthcare expenses, consolidation in the healthcare industry, regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions affect the purchasing practices, operation and, ultimately, the operating funds of healthcare organizations. In particular, changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry, such as any increased regulation by governmental agencies of the purchase and sale of medical products, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements, could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of orders or reduce funds and demand for our products and services. The Company’s customers derive a substantial portion of their revenue from third-party private and governmental payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage of and reimbursement for medical care provided is available from governmental health programs, private health insurers, managed care plans and other third-party payors. If governmental or other third-party payors materially reduce reimbursement rates or fail to reimburse our customers adequately, our customers may suffer adverse financial consequences which, in turn, may reduce the demand for and ability to purchase our products or services. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996, enacted August 22, 1996, is designed to improve the efficiency of healthcare by standardizing the interchange of specified electronic data, and to protect the security and confidentiality of protected health information. HIPAA requires that covered entities comply with national standards for certain types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in such transactions, and adopt policies and practices to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of Protected 15 Health Information. Streamline Health believes that the features and architecture of Streamline Health’s solutions are such that it currently supports or should be able to make the necessary modifications to its products, if required, to ensure support of the HIPAA regulations, and other subsequent HIPAA legislation or regulations. However, if the regulations are unduly restrictive, this could cause delays in the delivery of new versions of solutions and adversely affect the licensing of the Company’s solutions. However, there can be no assurance that an increase in the purchase of new systems or additional use of Streamline Health software and services will occur. In February 2009, the United States Congress enacted the HITECH Act, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The HITECH Act requires that hospitals and health systems make investments in their clinical information systems, including the adoption of electronic medical records. While we believe that increased emphasis on electronic medical records by hospitals and health systems will also drive demand for SaaS-based tools, such as ours, to help rationalize and standardize patient and clinical data for efficient and accurate use, we cannot be certain whether or when such demand will materialize nor can we be certain that we will benefit from it. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, amended by the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The Affordable Care Act is a sweeping measure designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, control health care spending, and improve health care quality. The law includes provisions to tie Medicare provider reimbursement to health care quality and incentives; mandatory compliance programs; enhanced transparency disclosure requirements; increased funding and initiatives to address fraud and abuse; and incentives to state Medicaid programs to promote community-based care as an alternative to institutional long-term care services, among many others. In addition, the law provides for the establishment of a national voluntary pilot program to bundle Medicare payments for hospital and post-acute services, which could lead to changes in the delivery of health care services. Likewise, many states have adopted or are considering changes in health care policies as a result of state budgetary shortfalls. The timetable for implementing many provisions of the Affordable Care Act remains unsettled, and we do not know what effect federal or state law proposals may have on our business. Streamline Health faces significant competition, including from companies with significantly greater resources. The Company currently competes with many other companies for the licensing of similar software solutions and related services. Several companies historically have dominated the clinical information systems software market and several of these companies have either acquired, developed or are developing their own document management and workflow technologies. The industry is undergoing consolidation and realignment as companies position themselves to compete more effectively. Many of these companies are larger than Streamline Health and have significantly more resources to invest in their business. In addition, information and document management companies serving other industries may enter the market. Suppliers and companies with whom Streamline Health may establish strategic alliances may also compete with Streamline Health. Such companies and vendors may either individually, or by forming alliances excluding Streamline Health, place bids for large agreements in competition with Streamline Health. A decision on the part of any of these competitors to focus additional resources in the image-enabling, workflow, and other markets addressed by Streamline Health could have a material adverse effect on Streamline Health. The healthcare industry is evolving rapidly, which may make it more difficult for the Company to be competitive in the future. The United States healthcare system is under intense pressure to improve in many areas, including modernization, universal access and controlling skyrocketing costs of care. Streamline Health believes that the principal competitive factors in its market are customer recommendations and references, company reputation, system reliability, system features and functionality (including ease of use), technological advancements, customer service and support, breadth and quality of the systems, the potential for enhancements and future compatible products, the effectiveness of marketing and sales efforts, price and the size and perceived financial stability of the vendor. In addition, the Company believes that the speed with which companies in its market can anticipate the evolving healthcare industry structure and identify unmet needs are important competitive factors. There can be no assurance 16 that Streamline Health will be able to keep pace with changing conditions and new developments such that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors. Rapid technology changes and short product life cycles could harm Streamline Health’s business. The market for Streamline Health’s solutions and services is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, regulatory requirements, evolving industry standards and new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing solutions obsolete or less competitive. As a result, Streamline Health’s position in the healthcare information technology market could change rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, upon the Company’s ability to enhance its existing solutions and services and to develop and introduce new solutions and services to meet changing requirements. The Company needs to maintain an ongoing research and development program to continue to develop new solutions and apply new technologies to its existing products, but may not have sufficient funds with which to undertake such required research and development. If the Company is not able to foresee changes and/or to react in a timely manner to such developments, the Company may experience a material, adverse impact on its business, operating results, and financial condition. Streamline Health’s intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of Streamline Health’s solutions and services. The Company trademarks and copyrights its intellectual property, which represents an important asset to the Company. Streamline Health does not have any patent protection on any of its software. The Company relies upon license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc. to maintain the confidentiality of Streamline Health’s proprietary information and trade secrets. Notwithstanding these precautions, others may copy, reverse engineer or design independently, technology similar to Streamline Health’s products. If the Company fails to adequately protect the intellectual property through trademarks and copyrights, license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc., the intellectual property rights may be misappropriated by others, invalidated, or challenged, and our competitors could duplicate the Company’s technology or may otherwise limit any competitive technology advantage the Company may have. It may be necessary to litigate to enforce or defend Streamline Health’s proprietary technology or to determine the validity of the intellectual property rights of others. Any litigation, could be successful or unsuccessful, may result in substantial cost and require significant attention by management and technical personnel. The Company could be subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement, which claims could be expensive to defend. While the Company does not believe that its products and services infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, the potential for intellectual property infringement claims continually increases as the number of software patents and copyrighted and trademarked materials continues to rapidly expand. Any claim for intellectual property right infringement, even if not meritorious, would be expensive to defend. If the Company were to become liable for infringing third party intellectual property rights, the Company could be liable for substantial damage awards, and potentially be required to cease using the technology, to produce non-infringing technology, or to obtain a license to use such technology. Such potential liabilities or increased costs could be materially adverse to the Company. Third party products are essential to Streamline Health’s software. Streamline Health software incorporates software licensed from various vendors into its proprietary software. In addition, third-party, stand-alone software is required to operate some of the Company’s proprietary software modules. The loss of the ability to use these third party products, or ability to obtain substitute third party software at comparable prices, could have a material adverse affect on the ability to license Streamline Health software. 17 Streamline Health’s solutions may not be error free and could result in claims of breach of contract and liabilities. Streamline Health’s solutions are very complex and may not be error free, especially when first released. Although the Company performs extensive testing, failure of any product to operate in accordance with its specifications and documentation could constitute a breach of the license agreement and require Streamline Health to correct the deficiency. If such deficiency is not corrected within the agreed upon contractual limitations on liability and cannot be corrected in a timely manner, it could constitute a material breach of a contract allowing the termination thereof and possibly subjecting the Company to liability. Also, Streamline Health sometimes indemnifies its customers against third-party infringement claims. If such claims are made, even if they are without merit, they could be expensive to defend. Streamline Health’s license agreement generally limits the Company’s liability arising from claims such as described in the foregoing sentences, but such limits may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions or under some circumstances. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be liable to third parties from the use of the Company’s solutions. The Company’s solutions provide access to patient information used by physicians and other medical personnel in providing medical care. The medical care provided by physicians and other medical personnel are subject to numerous medical malpractice and other claims. The Company attempts to limit any potential liability of the Company to customers by limiting the warranties on its solutions in the Company’s agreements with the Company’s customer, the healthcare provider. However, such agreements do not protect the Company from third party claims by patients who may seek damages from any or all persons or entities connected to the process of delivering patient care. The Company maintains insurance, which provides limited protection from such claims, if such claims against the Company would result in liability to the Company. Although no such claims have been brought against the Company to date regarding injuries related to the use of our solutions, such claims may be made in the future. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company’s remote application hosting services and support services could experience interruptions. The Company provides remote hosting services for many clients, including the storage of critical patient, financial and administrative data. In addition, it provides support services to clients through the client support facility. The Company has redundancies, such as backup generators, redundant telecommunications lines, and backup facilities built into its operations to prevent disruptions. However, complete failure of all generators or impairment of all telecommunications lines or severe casualty damage to the primary building or equipment inside the primary building housing our hosting center or client support facilities could cause a temporary disruption in operations and adversely affect clients who depend on the application hosting services. Any interruption in operations at its data center or client support facility could cause the Company to lose existing clients, impede our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, cause potential liability to our clients, and increase our operating costs. The Company’s remote application hosting services are provided over an internet connection. Any breach of security or confidentiality of protected health information could expose the Company to significant expense, and harm to the Company’s reputation. The Company provides remote hosting services for clients, including the storage of critical patient, financial and administrative data. The Company has security measures in place to prevent or detect misappropriation of Protected Heath Information. The Company must maintain facility and systems security measures to preserve the confidentiality of data belonging to clients as well as their patients that resides on computer equipment in the Data Center, which we handle via application hosting services, or that is otherwise in the Company’s possession. Notwithstanding efforts undertaken to protect data, it can be vulnerable to infiltration as well as unintentional lapse. If confidential information is compromised, the Company could face claims for contract breach, penalties and other liabilities for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences, and serious harm to the Company’s reputation. 18 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect Streamline Health’s business. Streamline Health’s success depends, to a significant degree, on its management, sales force and technical personnel. The Company must recruit, motivate, and retain highly skilled managers, sales, consulting and technical personnel, including application programmers, database specialists, consultants, and system architects who have the requisite expertise in the technical environments in which our solutions operate. Competition for such technical expertise is intense. The Company’s failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company may not have access to sufficient capital to be competitive in its markets. Streamline Health may need additional capital in the form of loans or equity in order to operate and to be competitive. The Company may be limited to the availability of such capital or may not have any availability, in which case the Company’s future prospects may be materially impaired. The Company must maintain compliance with the terms of its existing credit facilities. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to finance its ongoing operations and the Company may not be able to find an alternative lending source if a default would occur. On October 21, 2009, the Company entered into an amended and restated revolving credit facility with its existing lender. Upon doing so, the Company was able to negotiate modified terms in which the minimum tangible net worth requirement was eliminated. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company entered into an amended and restated revolving note with Fifth Third Bank, Cincinnati, OH. The terms of the loan remain the same as set forth in the revolving note entered into on July 31, 2008, as amended on January 6, 2009, and October 31, 2009, except as follows: (i) the maximum principal amount that can be borrowed was increased to $3,000,000 from the prior maximum amount of $2,750,000, subject to the borrowing base; (ii) the maturity date of the loan has been extended to October 1, 2013 from October 1, 2011; (iii) the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio covenant has been revised, to require that the Company shall maintain a minimum trailing twelve months fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25, measured each fiscal quarter; (iv) the funded indebtedness to EBITDA covenant has been revised, to require that the Company shall report a funded indebtedness to EBITDA ratio no greater than 2.0, measured each fiscal quarter and; (v) a covenant has been added to require that the Company’s EBITDA shall cover its capitalized software development costs each fiscal quarter. The covenant becomes effective on October 31, 2011 and is calculated based on the trailing nine months. As of January 31, 2012 and thereafter, the calculation will be based on the trailing twelve months. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to maintain compliance with all of the continuing covenants and other terms and conditions of this credit facility on an ongoing basis. If not, the Company could be required to pay back the amounts borrowed on an accelerated basis, which could subject the Company to decreased liquidity and other negative impacts on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if the Company would need to find an alternative lending source, the Company may have difficulty in doing so, particularly in the current credit environment which is not favorable to borrowers. Without a sufficient credit facility, the Company would be adversely affected by a lack of access to liquidity needed to operate the Company’s business. Any disruption in access to credit could force the Company to take measures to conserve cash, such as deferring important research and development expenses, which measures could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the Company’s business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If internal funds are not available from operations, the Company may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet its financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. The Company’s access to funds under its revolving credit facility or pursuant to arrangements with other financial institutions is dependent on the ability of the financial institution’s ability to meet funding commitments. Financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience high volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time. 19 Adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally may have significant effects on the Company’s customers and suppliers that would result in material adverse effects on the Company’s business, operating results and stock price. Adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally and the concern that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period may materially adversely affect the Company’s customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on the Company’s products and services and/or their levels of cash liquidity in with which or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from the Company. Continuing adverse economic conditions would also likely negatively impact the Company’s business, which could result in: (1) reduced demand for the Company’s products and services; (2) increased price competition for the Company’s products and services; (3) increased risk of collectability of cash from the Company’s customers; (4) increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; (5) reduced revenues; and (6) higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. All of the foregoing potential consequences of current national or global economic conditions are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, the Company’s operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of future results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The market price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile. The public trading of the Company’s common stock is based on many factors, which could cause fluctuation in the price of the Company’s common stock. These factors may include, but are not limited to: • General economic and market conditions; • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • Lack of research coverage by securities analysts; • Conditions or trends in the healthcare information technology industry; • Changes in the market valuations of other companies in the Company’s industry; • Announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; • Capital commitments; • Additional or departures of key personnel; and • Sales and repurchases of the Company’s common stock. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. These factors may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of the Company’s most critical estimates is the amount of software development costs to capitalize. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase or decrease such estimates upon determination of the actual results. Any required adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations, and could result in the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements. 20 Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s reported earnings and financial condition. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could result in the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements. Failure to improve and maintain the quality of internal controls over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide timely and accurate financial information about the Company. In connection with the preparation of the financial statements for the Company’s fiscal year end, management conducted a review of the internal control structure over financial reporting. No significant deficiencies or material weaknesses were identified. However, management cannot be certain that deficiencies will not arise in the future or be identified or that the Company will be able to correct and maintain adequate controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm operating results or cause failure to meet reporting obligations in a timely and accurate manner. Foreign currency risk The Company is a receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, changes in the exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, will negatively affect the Company’s net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. There is also a risk that the Company will have to adjust local currency product pricing due to competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company has several individual stockholders who are not affiliated with the Company, who beneficially own in the aggregate more than one-third of our outstanding common stock. These non-affiliated stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. As to these matters and in other situations, the Company’s Board of Directors and management may disagree with these stockholders as to whether the action opposed or supported by them is in the best interest of our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of the Company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Because of the aggregate size of their holdings, these non-affiliated stockholders have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to a stockholder vote. Their interests may differ from those of other holders of our common stock in material respects. For example, they may determine that the disposition of some or their shares of Company common stock would be beneficial to them at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to the other holders of our common stock, and such dispositions could adversely affect the market price of our shares. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for the Company’s management to predict all risk factors, nor can the Company assess the impact of all factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 