Risk Factors This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Business We face intensive competition in our industry. The CAD/CAM software industry, characterized by rapid advances in technology and changing customer requirements, is highly competitive. We design, develop, manufacture, market and support a family of modular, high performance, fully integrated, computer-aided design/computer aided manufacturing, or CAD/CAM, software products. Traditionally, our competitors in the CAD/CAM market are at both the high and low end of the market. The lower end of the market consists of dedicated Numerical Control, or NC, programming systems offerings, which have limited or no modeling capability, while the high end of the market, including our Cimatron E consists of integrated CAD/CAM systems. Many high-end market products are roughly similar to our Cimatron E product. 5 As the CAD/CAM software industry is highly fragmented and characterized by many relatively small and privately owned companies, we face competition from numerous companies in relation to all of our products. In addition, some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than us. We believe that, due to the large number of companies that operate in this market, we do not have a single major competitor or a group of competitors. The principal factors permitting our products to compete successfully against our competitors’ products are: — the compatibility of our products with other software applications and existing and emerging industry standards; — our ongoing product and feature development; — the offering of unique innovative products to the tooling industry; — the level of our product breadth and integration; — the technical expertise and support that we provide; — the flexibility of our products; — the reputation we maintain among certain independent distributors of our products, to which we refer as Providers; and — the relatively low overall price and total cost of ownership of our products combined with the high-end capabilities of our products. Although we believe that the attributes of our products provide us with a competitive advantage over our competitors, there can be no assurance that the marketplace will consider Cimatron E to be superior to existing competing products. In addition, new competitors may arise in each of the markets in which we currently operate. Furthermore, as we enter new geographic markets, we may encounter significant competition from companies that are more established in such markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our existing or future products will successfully compete against our competitors’ products. We are heavily reliant on the sale of one family of products. Sales and services related to the Cimatron E product family have historically accounted for substantially all of our revenue. If sales of the Cimatron E family were to decline, or fail to grow, or the profit margin on these products were to decrease significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends significantly upon sales by our customers of products in the consumer market. This market is extremely competitive and is highly susceptible to fluctuations in demand. Our products are designed for use by manufacturers of consumer products or consumer product components. The consumer products market is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Sales of consumer products have historically been dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers. Consumers may defer or alter purchasing decisions based on economic conditions or other factors, and accordingly could cause a reduction in demand for products manufactured by our customers. Softening consumer demand for consumer products has in the past caused a decline in the demand for our products and any future softening in demand for consumer products could cause uncertainty with respect to our expected revenues or adversely affect our revenues and operating results. 6 Two of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our ordinary shares and may therefore influence our affairs. In February 2002, two private holding companies, Koonras Technologies Ltd., or Koonras, a subsidiary of Polar Communications Ltd., and DBSI Investments Ltd. or DBSI, consummated a transaction with Zeevi Computers and Technology Ltd., or ZCT, by which they acquired, for approximately $9,900,000, all of our Ordinary Shares previously held by ZCT, representing 64.3% of our share capital (including in this calculation 166,100 of our ordinary shares which we have repurchased and which, pursuant to Israeli law, cannot be voted and possess no rights other than upon liquidation). Following this transaction, each of Koonras and DBSI beneficially owned approximately 33% of our ordinary shares and each currently continues to own approximately 32% of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, Koonras and DBSI together are expected to continue to effectively have the ability to control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Koonras and DBSI have entered into an agreement by which, among other matters, they will each appoint one half of our directors, not including our external directors, and vote together at our shareholders’ meetings. The concentration of ownership of our Ordinary Shares by Koonras and DBSI could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our Ordinary Shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our Ordinary Shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price, especially if these shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares under their registration rights. We are subject to several risks as a result of our international sales. To date, our products have been sold primarily in Europe, the Far East, North America and Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our business. Companies that engage in international sales are subject to a number of risks, such as: — agreements may be difficult to enforce through a foreign company's legal system; — foreign countries could impose additional withholding or other taxes on our income; — foreign countries could impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; — fluctuations in exchange rates; — changes in general economic conditions in one or more countries could affect product demand; 7 — the protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries may be limited or more difficult to enforce; and — difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations, including difficulty in retaining or replacing local management. There can be no assurance that these and similar factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, future prospects and results of operations. Many customers of the CAD/CAM industry have migrated their operations to the Far East. In order to remain competitive in the industry, we need to penetrate the Far East markets; operation in these markets subjects us to specific risks. Many mold, tool, die and fixture makers have migrated or intend to migrate their operations to markets in the Far East, such as China, in order to take advantage of the relatively lower cost of labor available in those markets for their manufacturing activities. We anticipate that this migration will continue. In order to continue to compete in the CAD/CAM software industry, we will need to increase our penetration of these markets. Many of those markets, including China, are characterized by lower prices and by higher usage of pirated copies of software products. While those markets are also often much larger than a number of our traditional markets in Europe, to the extent that we cannot offset the effects of lower prices and higher incidents of pirated software usage, our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We are reliant upon independent distributors to market and support our products. We rely on independent distributors, to whom we refer as Providers, to market, sell, service and support our products worldwide. Generally, our relationships with our Providers are based on agreements with two-year terms (subject to rolling two-year extensions) and which enable Providers to purchase our products at a discounted price. While we have exclusive relationships with certain of our Providers, there can be no assurance that these Providers will give high priority to the marketing and support of our products. In addition, our Providers in Italy and Japan each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2006. In July 2005 we acquired 27.5% of the shares of the Italian Provider and an option to purchase its remaining outstanding shares from its shareholders and granted the Provider’s shareholders an option to require us to purchase 49% of the Provider’s share capital under specific circumstances. In May 2007, our board of directors approved the exercise of our option to increase our holdings in the Italian Provider to 51%, which increase is scheduled to take effect during the first week of July 2007. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview” for additional details regarding the transaction with our Italian Provider and the options received both by us and the Provider’s shareholders. The results of our operations could be adversely affected by changes in the financial condition of a Provider, which could occur rapidly, or to other changes in our current Providers’ business or marketing strategies. There can be no assurance that we will retain our current Providers, nor can there be any assurance that, in the event that we lose any of our Providers, we will be successful in recruiting other highly professional and technically competent Providers to represent us. Any such changes in our distribution channels, especially those in the Far East and Europe, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Item 4 – Information on the Company – Business Overview.” 8 Following our acquisition of 51% of MicroSystem, its results of operations may have a material impact on our results of operations. Following the exercise of our option to increase our holdings in MicroSystem, our Italian Provider, to 51%, which increase is scheduled to take effect during the first week of July 2007, we will fully consolidate the results of Microsystem, subject to exclusion of minority interest. Therefore, Microsystem’s results of operation, including revenues, gross margins and operating income, could have a material effect on our results of operation including revenues, gross margins and operating income. The consolidation of Microsystem’s financial statements will also increase the impact of changes in the Euro – dollar exchange rate on our revenues and expenses, as substantially all of Microsystem’s revenues and expenses are Euro-denominated. We have a history of annual and quarterly losses and cannot assure you that we will continue to remain profitable on an annual basis or remain profitable on a quarterly basis in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $0.4 million and $4.6 million in 2004 and 2005 respectively. Although we had net income of $0.5 million in 2006 and net income of approximately $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2007, we cannot be certain that we will maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results, which makes it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price for our ordinary shares. Our quarterly revenues, gross profits and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and may be subject to continued fluctuation in the future. The following events may cause such fluctuations: — changes in timing of orders, especially large orders, for our products and services; — changes in the prices for our products and services; — adverse economic conditions and international exchange rate and currency fluctuations; — delays in the implementation of our solutions by customers; — changes in the proportion of service and license revenues; — timing of product releases; — changes in the economic conditions of the various industries in which our customers operate; — price and product competition; — increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; 9 — technological changes; and — political instability in the Middle East. A substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development, selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience a shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, our quarterly results of operations have, on separate occasions, been below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and the price of our ordinary shares subsequently decreased. If that would happen in the future, the price of our ordinary shares will likely decrease again. Because of our international operations, changes in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could have a significant effect on our results of operations. In addition, local economic conditions or currency fluctuations could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. Although part of our revenues are denominated and paid in U.S. dollars, the majority are not so denominated and paid. Therefore we believe that inflation and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar exchange rate may have a material effect on our revenue. In addition, a significant portion of our international sales is denominated in Euros, and in the future additional sales may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. We may choose to limit this exposure by entering into hedging transactions. However, hedging transactions may not prevent exchange-related losses, and our business may be harmed by exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore, as we seek to expand our sales to regions throughout the world, we might be exposed to risks of customers located in countries suffering from uncertain economic environments such as high inflation and solvency problems. Those issues and devaluation in local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar where our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. Prior to 2006 we experienced decreases in our revenues from products. If this trend will return, it will likely adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Although our revenues from the sales of products increased to approximately $9.6 million in 2006 from approximately $9.0 million in 2005, product revenues have decreased from approximately $11.4 million in 2004. At the same time, revenues from maintenance and services have remained generally unchanged at approximately $11.8 million to approximately $12.0 million. Our gross margin from products is higher than our gross margin from services. This is because our cost of services, which includes expenses of salaries and related benefits of the employees and subcontractors engaged in providing the services, is relatively higher than our cost of products. If our overall percentage of revenues comprised by maintenance and service revenues will increase, our gross margins and profitability will likely be adversely affected. In addition, if our revenues from the sale of products will decrease, such decrease may adversely affect our future maintenance and service revenues, as it may result in a smaller user base to purchase maintenance and service contracts from us. 10 If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, or if our products are not accepted in the marketplace, our business will be adversely affected. It is difficult to predict demand and CAD/CAM market acceptance for our solutions and products. We cannot guarantee that the market for our solutions and products will grow or that they will become widely accepted. If the market for our solutions and products does not develop as quickly as we expect, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, client requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing offerings obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. If our solutions and products do not achieve or maintain market acceptance or if our competitors release new products that achieve quicker market acceptance, have more advanced features, offer better performance or are more price competitive, our revenues may not grow and may even decline. In addition, if a product we develop and introduce does not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to recover the costs associated with developing the product, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified professional employees. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in a number of our key markets and locations. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. The market for the qualified personnel we require is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel where competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our research and development and sales objectives. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with substantially all of our employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, during the term of their employment with us and after they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. 11 Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. In addition, the issuance by us of securities as consideration payable in such acquisitions could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. One of our strategies is to acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. For instance, in July 2005 we acquired 27.5% of the shares of our Italian distributor and an option to purchase the remaining outstanding shares of that company from its stockholders, and granted the distributor’s shareholders an option to require us to purchase 49% of the distributor’s share capital under specific circumstances. In May 2007, our board of directors approved the exercise of our option to increase our holdings in our Italian distributor to 51%, which increase is scheduled to take effect during the first week of July 2007. During August 2006, we acquired the remaining 69.83% of the outstanding shares of our Korean provider, which thereafter became a wholly owned subsidiary. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview” for additional details regarding the transaction with our Korean distributor and Italian distributor and the options received both by us and the shareholders of the Italian distributor. We may in the future engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings into our own or the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may incur indebtedness or dilute our existing shareholders by issuing equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. We are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets have in recent years experienced volatility that has particularly affected the securities of many high-technology companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies, including Cimatron. As a result, we may experience difficulties in securing the additional financing required to effectively operate and grow our business due to the volatility in the price of our shares, resulting in a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. 12 We may not be successful in our arbitration proceedings with Omega. In April 2004, Omega – Adem Technologies Ltd., an Israeli privately held company engaged in the development of software, filed a lawsuit against us, claiming that we caused four employees of the plaintiff located in Russia to terminate their employment with the plaintiff and join us. In September 2004, Omega submitted a statement of claim to an arbitrator for an amount of $20,000,000 for damages caused to it due to the employment of the four employees in question. The arbitration process is now in its final stage. We believe that there is no merit to the claim, which we have continuously vigorously opposed, but we have nevertheless accrued in the fourth quarter of 2005 a sum of $250,000 for this claim. We cannot give any assurance that we will be victorious or that the arbitration award will not exceed the amount we accrued. See “Item 8 – Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” for more information regarding this claim. Risks Related to Licenses and Intellectual Property We rely, to a certain extent, on third parties’ software. If we lose the ability to continue to license that software, our business could be materially adversely affected. To date, most of the software relating to the Cimatron E family of products has been developed internally by our research and development staff. However, to accelerate our product development and improve our time to market, we also review opportunities to acquire or license products or technologies from third parties. Mainly, we utilize software tools and engines that we acquire from Spatial Corp., a subsidiary of Dassault Systems, and D-Cubed, for the representation and processing of three dimensional objects and surfaces in order to expedite the continued development of our new Cimatron E product family. In addition, we use software from ModuleWorks GmbH, a German company, for advanced 5-Axis NC calculations, and advanced metal forming software from Forming Technologies Incorporated (FTI), a Canadian company. We rely, to a certain extent, upon such third parties’ abilities to enhance their current products and develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis that will meet changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards or other technological changes. Our business would be disrupted if functional versions of the third party software we rely on were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms and we may, as a result, suffer a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual proprietary technology and this could result in the loss of revenue. We primarily rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, together with non-disclosure agreements and trademark measures (such as software protection “locks”), to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. The measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the steps that we take to protect these proprietary rights will be adequate to provide misappropriation of the technology or independent development of similar technology by others. This is particularly a problem in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States do. For instance, we have encountered significant piracy problems in certain jurisdictions, including in Brazil, Taiwan, Israel and China, where we face significant competition from pirated copies of our products. These problems may increase as many of our customers and their competitors migrate their businesses to lower cost labor markets in the Far East. Despite our best efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. 13 We may be subject to litigation to determine the scope of proprietary rights of others. Significant and protracted litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, to determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. We believe that our systems do not infringe upon any existing third-party proprietary rights, and to our knowledge there have been no claims of infringement by us of third-party proprietary rights to date; however, there can be no assurance that any such claims will not be asserted against us in the future. If infringement is alleged, we could be required to discontinue the use of certain software codes or processes, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, to incur significant litigation damages, costs and expenses and to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the alleged infringing technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to develop alternative technologies or to obtain such licenses on terms commercially acceptable to us, if at all. Risks Related to our Operations in Israel We may be adversely affected if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses, are in new Israeli shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. To the extent that the value of the New Israeli Shekel increases against the U.S. dollar, our expenses on a U.S. dollar cost basis increase. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation/ deflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. The Israeli rate of inflation (deflation) amounted to 1.2%, 2.4% and (0.1)% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. If the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. The New Israeli Shekel revaluation (devaluation) in relation to the U.S. dollar amounted to (1.6)%, 6.8% and (8.2)% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, and to (4.5%) for the five-month period ended May 31, 2007. 14 Security, political and economic instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. Our principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. In addition, a portion of our sales is made to customers in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect adversely our operations. From October 2000 until recently, terrorist violence in Israel increased significantly and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives effectively ceased. In February 2006, Hamas, a radical Islamic organization, won the Palestinian Parliament elections. In July and August 2006, significant fighting took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in rockets being fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel. There can be no assurance that the recent relative calm will continue. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, several countries still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit our ability to sell our products in those countries. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. At various times over the last five years, there have been significant call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The government programs and tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the approved enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund the tax benefits already received, together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under some of these programs in recent years, and Israeli governmental authorities have indicated that the government may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of existing programs and tax benefits could increase our expenses, thereby reducing our profits or increasing our losses. In addition, the law and regulations prescribing the benefits provide an expiration date for the grant of new benefits. The expiration date has been extended several times in the past. The expiration date currently in effect is December 31, 2007, and no new benefits will be granted after that date unless the expiration date is extended again. There can be no assurance that new benefits will be available after December 31, 2007, or that existing benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. 15 In connection with research and development grants received from the Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel, or the OCS, we must pay royalties to the OCS on the revenue derived from the sale of products, technologies and services developed with the grant from the OCS. The terms of the OCS grants and the law pursuant to which grants are made may impair our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies developed using OCS grants outside of Israel. The transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than ten percent of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, in the event that we undertake a transaction involving the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, the consideration available to our shareholders may be reduced by the amounts we are required to pay to the OCS. In connection with our grant applications, we have made certain representations, including information provided in periodical performance reports, and we have committed to certain performance-based covenants. The funding from the OCS is subject to the accuracy of these representations and covenants and to our compliance with the conditions and restrictions imposed by the OCS. If we fail to comply with any of these conditions or restrictions, we could be required to repay any grants previously received, together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor in addition to certain other penalties. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of these conditions or restrictions, we would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. The inability to receive these grants would result in an increase in our research and development expenses. 16 We may be required to pay royalties to the OCS in respect of sales since January 1, 2005. We believe that the majority of products that we have sold since January 1, 2005 are not based on technology developed with funds provided by the OCS and that, accordingly, such sales should not be subject to the payment of royalties to the OCS. Therefore, the royalty reports we submitted to the OCS for the period starting January 1, 2005 and thereafter have reflected significantly reduced royalty obligations in comparison to our royalty reports for the years prior to 2005. In addition, during the second half of 2005 we initiated a process with the OCS in an attempt to obtain the agreement of the OCS with our position and to the cessation of our obligation to pay future royalties. Although we believe we have strong arguments to support our position, we have accrued royalty expenses in our financial reports for the periods from January 1st, 2005 to March 31st, 2007 in the amount of $1.6 million, but we have not paid any royalties associated with the products mentioned above to the OCS. In light of the above-mentioned facts, we intend to consider our next steps with the OCS and whether further royalty expenses accruals will be necessary. A determination that we are in fact obligated to pay royalties in respect of sales after January 1, 2005, could negatively impact our liquidity and if that determination is made after we cease to accrue for any such royalties on our financial statements or if the amount that we become obligated to pay exceeds the amounts for which we have accrued in our financial statements, such payments would negatively impact our earnings. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors or officers in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States, and a majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel since Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agreed to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. 