Item 1A Risk Factors See also, PART I, ITEM 1, BUSINESS. The following is a list of risk factors that affect the Company. They are not listed in any particular order or relative importance and no inferences should be given to the listing order. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company, its financial condition and/or operating results. The variability of the Company’s quarterly operating results can be significant. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and the Company expects continued fluctuations in the future. Future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company. These factors include: the relatively large size of customer agreements; unpredictability in the number and timing of system sales and sales of applications hosting services; length of the sales cycle; delays in installations; changes in customers’ financial condition or budgets; increased competition; the development and introduction of new products and services; the loss of significant customers or remarketing partners; changes in government regulations, particularly as to the healthcare industry; the size and growth of the overall healthcare information technology markets; any liability and other claims that may be asserted against the Company; the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; national and local general economic and market conditions; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and any other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s sales have been concentrated in a small number of customers. The Company’s revenues have been concentrated in a relatively small number of large customers, and the Company has historically derived a substantial percentage of its total revenues from a few customers. There can be no assurance that a customer will not cancel all or any portion of a master agreement or delay installations. A termination or installation delay of one or more phases of an agreement, or the failure of Streamline Health to procure additional agreements, could have a material adverse effect on Streamline Health’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Sales to the Company’s largest application hosting client ceased at the end of July 2008. The Company’s largest application hosting client did not renew its hosting agreement at the end of July 2008, which resulted in lower application hosting services revenues for the Company’s 2008 fiscal year. Although this client had renewed its hosting agreement with the Company several times over the previous five and a half year period, this client built its own locally-installed solution. If the Company is unable to replace the revenue stream from this client, which had been approximately $1.76 million annually, the termination of this agreement will have a material adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company signed eight new additional application hosting services agreements in 2008, which revenues have not yet fully come on-line, those new contracts are expected to generate revenues estimated to be approximately only 85% of the revenues attributable to the loss of this single large customer. The Company needs to continue to expand its customer base to minimize the effects of the loss of any single customer in the future. In addition to direct sales, the Company relies on third party remarketing alliances for a substantial portion of its revenues. The Company seeks to expand its distribution channels by creating remarketing alliances with third parties who are engaged in the sale of healthcare information systems, medical records management and outsourcing, and other healthcare information technology and patient care solutions. GE Healthcare, the Company’s major remarketing partner, could choose to discontinue reselling Streamline Health products, and significant customers could elect to discontinue using the Company’s products. The Company needs to ensure that it expands its distribution channels to reduce the reliance on a single major reseller. The Company could be less profitable than expected. Because of the relatively fixed operating expenses and overhead, the future profitability of the Company is dependent on increasing revenues which may not materialize as anticipated. Because of the Company’s anticipated shift in strategic focus towards remote application hosting services (Software as a Service (SaaS)), upon obtaining new application hosting customers, the Company will have to expend a significant amount of costs and time before those new customers are able to begin using such services and the Company cannot begin to recognize revenues from those clients until the commencement of such services. Accordingly, the Company anticipates that its near term cash flow, revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by this shift in strategic focus until new hosting customers go into production. While the Company anticipates long term growth through increases in recurring subscription fees and significantly improved profit visibility, the Company’s failure to successfully implement its focus on building its application hosting services business, or the failure of such initiative to result in improved profitability, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The Company needs to manage its costs while planning for growth. The Company is currently experiencing a period of growth primarily through its remote application hosting line of business and this could continue to place a significant strain on the Company’s cash flow. This could also strain the services and support operations, sales and administrative personnel and other resources as they are requested to handle the added work load with existing support resources. Streamline Health believes that it must continue to focus on these remote hosting services, develop new products, enhance existing solutions and serve the needs of its existing and anticipated customer base. The Company’s ability to successfully maintain and expand its operations will depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. The Company’s ability to manage its planned growth effectively also will require the Company to continue to improve its operational, management, and financial systems and controls, to train, motivate, and manage its employees and to judiciously manage its operating expenses in anticipation of increased future revenues. 20 Table of Contents The potential impact on the Company of new or changes in existing federal, state, and local regulations governing healthcare information could be substantial. Healthcare regulations issued to date have not had a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. However, the Company cannot predict the potential impact of new or revised regulations that have not yet been released or made final, or any other regulations that might be adopted. Congress may adopt legislation that may change, override, conflict with, or preempt the currently existing regulations and which could restrict the ability of customers to obtain, use, or disseminate patient health information. Streamline Health believes that the features and architecture of its existing solutions are such that it currently supports or should be able to make the necessary modifications to its products, if required, to ensure support of HIPAA regulations, and other legislation or regulations, but there can be no assurances. While new laws and regulations may increase the demand for healthcare information technology, including the solutions offered by the Company, such laws and regulations may have adverse consequences on the Company. Legislation governing the dissemination of patient health information is also from time-to-time proposed and debated at the federal and state level including, but not limited to, the healthcare initiatives set forth in The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”) signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009. Notwithstanding that the Stimulus Bill places substantial emphasis on the modernization of the U.S. healthcare system by using healthcare information technology, with a primary focus on electronic medical records, the Company’s ability to benefit from such initiatives is uncertain at this time. The implementation of the provisions in the Stimulus Bill may create new requirements for healthcare information technology that would require the Company to incur additional research and development expenditures to modify or expand its solutions in order to be fully compliant. In addition, until it becomes more clear how the government will apply its anticipated substantial funding of these healthcare initiatives, hospitals and other healthcare providers may delay purchases of new solutions until additional details become known. In such event, the Company may experience delays in entering into new agreements with existing customers and potential new customers. The substantial sums of money contemplated by the Stimulus Bill to be spent on healthcare information technology further may increase competition by attracting new and financially stronger entities to this industry. Streamline Health faces significant competition, including from companies with significantly greater resources. The Company currently competes with many other companies for the licensing of similar software solutions and related services. Several companies historically have dominated the clinical information systems software market and several of these companies have either acquired, developed or are developing their own document management and workflow technologies. The industry is undergoing consolidation and realignment as companies position themselves to compete more effectively. Many of these companies are larger than Streamline Health and have significantly more resources to invest in their business. In addition, information and document management companies serving other industries may enter the market. Suppliers and companies with whom Streamline Health may establish strategic alliances may also compete with Streamline Health. Such companies and vendors may either individually, or by forming alliances excluding Streamline Health, place bids for large agreements in competition with Streamline Health. A decision on the part of any of these competitors to focus additional resources in the image-enabling, workflow, and other markets addressed by Streamline Health could have a material adverse effect on Streamline Health. The healthcare industry is evolving rapidly, which may make it more difficult for the Company to be competitive in the future. The U.S. healthcare system is under intense pressure to improve in many areas, including modernization, universal access and controlling skyrocketing costs of care. Streamline Health believes that the principal competitive factors in its market are customer recommendations and references, company reputation, system reliability, system features and functionality (including ease of use), technological advancements, customer service and support, breadth and quality of the systems, the potential for enhancements and future compatible products, the 21 Table of Contents effectiveness of marketing and sales efforts, price and the size and perceived financial stability of the vendor. In addition, the Company believes that the speed with which companies in its market can anticipate the evolving healthcare industry structure and identify unmet needs are important competitive factors. There can be no assurance that Streamline Health will be able to keep pace with changing conditions and new developments such that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors. Rapid technology changes and short product life cycles could harm Streamline Health’s business. The market for Streamline Health’s solutions and services is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, regulatory requirements, evolving industry standards and new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing solutions obsolete or less competitive. As a result, Streamline Health’s position in the healthcare information technology market could change rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. Streamline Health’s future success will depend, in part, upon Streamline Health’s ability to enhance its existing solutions and services and to develop and introduce new solutions and services to meet changing requirements. The Company needs to maintain an ongoing research and development program to continue to develop new solutions and apply new technologies to its existing products, but may not have sufficient funds with which to undertake such required research and development. If the Company is not able to foresee changes and/or to react in a timely manner to such developments, the Company may experience a material, adverse impact on its business, operating results, and financial condition. Streamline Health’s intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of Streamline Health’s solutions and services. The Company trademarks and copyrights its intellectual property, which represents an important asset to the Company. Streamline Health does not have any patent protection on any of its software. The Company relies upon license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc. to maintain the confidentiality of Streamline Health’s proprietary information and trade secrets. Notwithstanding these precautions, others may copy, reverse engineer or design independently, technology similar to Streamline Health’s products. If the Company fails to adequately protect the intellectual property through trademarks and copyrights, license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc., the intellectual property rights may be misappropriated by others, invalidated, or challenged, and our competitors could duplicate the Company’s technology or may otherwise limit any competitive technology advantage the Company may have. It may be necessary to litigate to enforce or defend Streamline Health’s proprietary technology or to determine the validity of the intellectual property rights of others. Any litigation, could be successful or unsuccessful, may result in substantial cost and require significant attention by management and technical personnel. Due to the rapid pace of technology change, the Company believes its future success is likely to depend upon continued innovation, technical expertise, marketing skills and customer support and services rather than on legal protection of our property rights. However, the Company has in the past, and intends in the future, to aggressively assert its intellectual property rights when necessary. The Company could be subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement, which claims could be expensive to defend. While the Company does not believe that its products and services infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, the potential for intellectual property infringement claims continually increases as the number of software patents and copyrighted and trademarked materials continues to rapidly expand. Any claim for intellectual property right infringement, even if not meritorious, would be expensive to defend. If the Company were to become liable for infringing third party intellectual property rights, the Company could be liable for substantial damage awards, and potentially be required to cease using the technology, to produce non-infringing technology, or to obtain a license to use such technology. Such potential liabilities or increased costs could be materially adverse to the Company. 22 Table of Contents The Company’s customers must comply with extensive regulations relating to confidentiality and, accordingly, the Company’s solutions must be able to assist its customers in complying with such regulations. Federal and state laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which such records may be released. Regulations governing electronic health data privacy are continuing to evolve. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996, enacted August 22, 1996, is designed to improve the efficiency of healthcare by standardizing the interchange of specified electronic data, and to protect the security and confidentiality of protected health information. HIPAA requires that covered entities comply with national standards for certain types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in such transactions, and adopt policies and practices to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of PHI. Streamline Health cannot predict the potential impact of new or revised regulations that have not yet been released or made final, or any other regulations that might be adopted. Streamline Health believes that the features and architecture of Streamline Health’s solutions are such that it currently supports or should be able to make the necessary modifications to its products, if required, to ensure support of the HIPAA regulations, and other legislation or regulations. However, if the regulations are unduly restrictive, this could cause delays in the delivery of new versions of solutions and adversely affect the licensing of Streamline Health’s solutions. However, there can be no assurance that an increase in the purchase of new systems or additional use of Streamline Health software and services will occur. Third party products are essential to Streamline Health’s software. Streamline Health software incorporates software licensed from various vendors into its proprietary software. In addition, third-party, stand-alone software is required to operate some of the Company’s proprietary software modules. The loss of the ability to use these third party products, or ability to obtain substitute third party software at comparable prices, could have a material adverse affect on the ability to license Streamline Health software. Streamline Health’s solutions may not be error free and could result in claims of breach of contract and liabilities. Streamline Health’s solutions are very complex and may not be error free, especially when first released. Although the Company performs extensive testing, failure of any product to operate in accordance with its specifications and documentation could constitute a breach of the license agreement and require Streamline Health to correct the deficiency. If such deficiency is not corrected within the agreed upon contractual limitations on liability and cannot be corrected in a timely manner, it could constitute a material breach of a contract allowing the termination thereof and possibly subjecting the Company to liability. Also, Streamline Health sometimes indemnifies its customers against third-party infringement claims. If such claims are made, even if they are without merit, they could be expensive to defend. Streamline Health’s license agreement generally limits the Company’s liability arising from claims such as described in the foregoing sentences, but such limits may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions or under some circumstances. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be liable to third parties from the use of the Company’s solutions. The Company’s solutions provide access to patient information used by physicians and other medical personnel in providing medical care. The medical care provided by physicians and other medical personnel are subject to numerous medical malpractice and other claims. The Company attempts to limit any potential liability of the Company to customers by limiting the warranties on its solutions in the Company’s agreements with the Company’s customer, the healthcare provider. However, such agreements do not protect the Company from third party claims by patients who may seek damages from any or all persons or entities connected to the process of delivering patient care. The Company maintains insurance, which provides limited protection from such claims, if such claims against the Company would result in liability to the Company. Although no such claims have been brought against the Company to date regarding injuries related to the use of our solutions, such claims may be made 23 Table of Contents in the future. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company’s remote application hosting services and support services could experience interruptions. The Company provides remote hosting services for many clients, including the storage of critical patient, financial and administrative data. In addition, it provides support services to clients through the client support facility. The Company has redundancies, such as backup generators, redundant telecommunications lines, and backup facilities built into its operations to prevent disruptions. However, complete failure of all generators or impairment of all telecommunications lines or severe casualty damage to the primary building or equipment inside the primary building housing our hosting center or client support facilities could cause a temporary disruption in operations and adversely affect clients who depend on the application hosting services. Any interruption in operations at its data center or client support facility could cause the Company to lose existing clients, impede our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, cause potential liability to our clients, and increase our operating costs. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect Streamline Health’s business. Streamline Health’s success depends, to a significant degree, on its management, sales force and technical personnel. The Company must recruit, motivate, and retain highly skilled managers, sales, consulting and technical personnel, including application programmers, database specialists, consultants, and system architects who have the requisite expertise in the technical environments in which our solutions operate. Competition for such technical expertise is intense. The Company’s failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company may not have access to sufficient capital to be competitive in its markets. Streamline Health may need additional capital in the form of loans or equity in order to operate and to be competitive. The Company may be limited to the availability of such capital or may not have any availability, in which case the Company’s future prospects may be materially impaired. The Company must maintain compliance with the terms of its existing credit facilities. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to finance its ongoing operations and the Company may not be able to find an alternative lending source if a default would occur. On January 6, 2009, the Company entered into a revised revolving credit facility with its existing lender. Upon doing so, the Company was able to negotiate modified terms in order to cure the Company’s previous non-compliance with the minimum tangible net worth requirement, which non-compliance had been previously waived. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to maintain compliance with all of the covenants and other terms and conditions of this credit facility on an ongoing basis. If not, the Company could be required to pay back the amounts borrowed on an accelerated basis, which could subject the Company to decreased liquidity and other negative impacts on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if the Company would need to find an alternative lending source, the Company may have difficulty in doing so, particularly in the current credit environment which is not favorable to borrowers. Without a sufficient credit facility, the Company would be adversely affected by a lack of access to liquidity needed to operate the Company’s business. Any disruption in access to credit could force the Company to take measures to conserve cash, such as deferring important research and development expenses, which measures could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 24 Table of Contents If the national and global financial crisis intensifies, potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If internal funds are not available from operations, the Company may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet its financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. The Company’s access to funds under its revolving credit facility or pursuant to arrangements with other financial institutions is dependent on the ability of the financial institution’s ability to meet funding commitments. Financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience high volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time. The current financial crisis in the United States and globally may have significant effects on the Company’s customers and suppliers that would result in material adverse effects on the Company’s business, operating results and stock price. The current financial crisis in the United States and globally and the concern that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period may materially adversely affect the Company’s customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on the Company’s products and services and/or their levels of cash liquidity in with which or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from the Company. Continuing adverse economic conditions would also likely negatively impact the Company’s business, which could result in: (1) reduced demand for the Company’s products and services; (2) increased price competition for the Company’s products and services; (3) increased risk of collectability of cash from the Company’s customers; (4) increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; (5) reduced revenues; and (6) higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. All of the foregoing potential consequences of the current financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, the Company’s operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of future results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The market price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile. The public trading of the Company’s common stock is based on many factors, which could cause fluctuation in the price of the Company’s common stock. These factors may include, among other things: • General economic and market conditions; • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • Lack of research coverage by securities analysts; • Conditions or trends in the healthcare information technology industry; • Changes in the market valuations of other companies in the Company’s industry; • Announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; • Capital commitments; • Additional or departures of key personnel; and • Sales and repurchases of the Company’s common stock. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. These factors may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. 25 Table of Contents The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of the Company’s most critical estimates is the capitalization of software development costs. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase or decrease such estimates upon determination of the actual results. Any required adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations, and could result in the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements. Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s reported earnings and financial condition. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could result in the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements. Failure to improve and maintain the quality of internal controls over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide timely and accurate financial information about the Company. In connection with the preparation of the financial statements for the Company’s third fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2008, Management identified a deficiency in the internal controls over financial reporting relating to the capitalization of software development costs for the Company’s second fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2008. While such deficiency did not rise to the level of a “material weakness” or “significant deficiency,” an adjustment of approximately $362,000 was made in the third quarter to capitalize certain software development expenses that had been expensed in the second quarter. Management cannot be certain that other deficiencies will not arise in the future or be identified or that the Company will be able to correct and maintain adequate controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm operating results or cause failure to meet reporting obligations in a timely and accurate manner. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for the Company’s management to predict all risk factors, nor can the Company assess the impact of all factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Item 1B. Unresolved staff Comments None 