RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and the other information contained in this prospectus before you decide to purchase our common stock. Additional risks that are not currently known or foreseeable to us may materialize at a future date. The trading price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties occur and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may never be profitable. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $208.0 million. We had net losses of $35.5 million and $44.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. We have had operating losses since inception as a result of our significant clinical development, research and development, general and administrative, sales and marketing and business development expenses. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing capabilities and continue our clinical trials and research and development activities. Our prospects for achieving profitability will depend primarily on how successful we are in executing our business plan to: · market and sell Zanaflex Capsules; · obtain FDA approval for and commercialize Fampridine-SR; · continue to develop our preclinical product candidates and advance them into clinical trials; and · enter into strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements related to our drug discovery programs and product candidates. If we are not successful in executing our business plan, we may never achieve or may not sustain profitability. We will be substantially dependent on sales of one product, Zanaflex Capsules, to generate revenue for the foreseeable future. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets, which are our only FDA-approved products. Although we currently distribute Zanaflex tablets, our marketing efforts are focused on Zanaflex Capsules and we do not, and do not intend to, actively promote Zanaflex tablets. As a result, prescriptions for Zanaflex tablets have declined and we expect that they will continue to decline. Our goal is to convert sales of Zanaflex tablets and generic tizanidine tablets to sales of Zanaflex Capsules. We believe that sales of Zanaflex Capsules will constitute a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to convert tablet sales to capsule sales or are otherwise unable to increase our revenue from the sale of this product, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully differentiate Zanaflex Capsules from both Zanaflex tablets and generic tizanidine tablets we may not be able to increase sales of Zanaflex Capsules. There are currently 12 generic versions of tizanidine tablets on the market and they are significantly cheaper than either Zanaflex Capsules or Zanaflex tablets. In 2005, these generic versions of tizanidine tablets constituted approximately 95% of tizanidine sales in the United States. Although Zanaflex Capsules have a different pharmacokinetic profile when taken with food and are available in a higher dose than Zanaflex tablets and their generic equivalents, we may be unsuccessful in convincing prescribers, 38 patients and third-party payors that these differences justify the higher price of Zanaflex Capsules. Prescribers may prescribe generic tizanidine tablets instead of Zanaflex Capsules, and third-party payors may establish unfavorable reimbursement policies for Zanaflex Capsules or otherwise seek to encourage patients and prescribers to use generic tizanidine tablets instead of Zanaflex Capsules. In addition, although the FDA has determined that neither Zanaflex tablets nor generic tizanidine tablets are therapeutically equivalent, or “AB-rated,” to Zanaflex Capsules, it is possible that pharmacists may improperly fill prescriptions with generic tizanidine tablets or may seek to influence patients or physicians to change prescriptions from Zanaflex Capsules to generic tizanidine tablets. If we are unable to successfully differentiate Zanaflex Capsules from Zanaflex tablets and generic tizanidine tablets in the minds of prescribers, pharmacists, patients and third-party payors, our ability to generate meaningful revenue from this product will be adversely affected. Our company has limited sales and marketing experience and we may not be successful in building an effective sales and marketing organization to market Zanaflex Capsules to specialty physicians. As a company, we have limited sales and marketing experience, having only launched Zanaflex Capsules in April 2005. In order to successfully commercialize Zanaflex Capsules or any other products that we may bring to market, we will need to have adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Although we expanded our internal specialty sales force from 14 to 32 persons in the first quarter of 2006, we may need to further expand that sales force in the future. We may not be able to attract, train and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel, in a timely manner or at all, or integrate and manage a growing sales and marketing organization. In addition we may not succeed in increasing our sales of Zanaflex Capsules sufficently to justify the expense associated with our expanded sales force, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our prospects for achieving profitability. Returns of Zanaflex tablets may adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to the launch of generic tizanidine tablets in June 2002, wholesalers established larger than normal inventories of Zanaflex tablets. These inventories had expiration dates that extended to June 2005. Our return policy is to accept returns for six months before and 12 months after the product’s expiration date. According to our Zanaflex asset purchase agreement with Elan, we are responsible for all returns of Zanaflex tablets after January 17, 2005. Zanaflex tablets sold by Elan can be returned to us through June 2006. In the year ended December 31, 2004, we took a $4.1 million charge to establish a reserve for expected returns of Zanaflex tablets sold by Elan. This charge is an estimate. If returns for products not sold by us are higher than we have estimated, we will have to record additional charges, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing them to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete, and the outcome of such trials is uncertain. Clinical development of any product candidate that we determine to take into clinical trials may be curtailed, redirected, delayed or eliminated at any time for some or all of the following reasons: · negative or ambiguous results regarding the efficacy of the product candidate; · undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials, or other unforeseen or undesirable safety issues that make the product candidate not medically or commercially viable; 39 · inability to locate, recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · difficulty in determining meaningful end points or other measurements of success in our clinical trials; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the product candidate manufactured under current good manufacturing practices; · delays, suspension or termination of the trials imposed by us, an independent institutional review board for a clinical trial site, or clinical holds placed upon the trials by the FDA; · FDA approval of new drugs that are more effective than our product candidates; · change in the focus of our development efforts or a re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy; and · a change in our financial position. A delay in or termination of any of our clinical development programs could have an adverse effect on our business. If our Phase 3 clinical trials of Fampridine-SR are unsuccessful, or if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for this product candidate or any approval is unduly limited in scope, our business prospects will be adversely affected. In June 2005, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for Fampridine-SR for the improvement of walking ability in patients with MS. In April 2004, we released results from a Phase 2 clinical trial designed to assess the relative safety and efficacy of varying doses of Fampridine-SR in MS. Our results did not reach statistical significance for the primary endpoint in this trial. Although we have designed the current Phase 3 clinical trial to address the difficulties we encountered in interpreting the patient data from the earlier trial, we cannot be sure that the results from our current clinical trial will be statistically significant. To achieve the primary endpoint in our current Phase 3 clinical trial for MS, we need to show statistical improvement in the walking speed of the patients in the trial and that this improvement is both sustained and clinically meaningful to these patients. If we fail to achieve the primary endpoint in this clinical trial or the results are ambiguous, we will have to determine whether to re-design our MS trial and protocols and continue with additional testing, or cease development activities in this area. Redesigning the program could be extremely costly and time-consuming. Even if we are able to achieve the primary endpoint, we will need positive results from at least one other clinical trial to support the filing of an NDA with the FDA. We cannot predict how long the second trial, or any additional trial that might be required by the FDA, will take or what the cost will be. Our Phase 3 clinical trial for Fampridine-SR in MS is being conducted pursuant to a special protocol assessment, or SPA, with the FDA and the FDA has agreed that, if successful, this trial could qualify as one of the pivotal trials needed to support regulatory approval. This SPA may not be changed by either us or the FDA. However, if the FDA determines that a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or efficacy of Fampridine-SR is identified after the trial began, the FDA may alter its conclusion on the adequacy of the protocol. In addition, even if the SPA remains in place and the trial meets its primary endpoint, the FDA could determine that the overall balance of risks and benefits for Fampridine-SR is not adequate to support approval, or only justifies approval for a narrow set of uses or approval with restricted distribution or other burdensome post-approval requirements and limitations. If the FDA denies approval of Fampridine-SR in MS, FDA approval is substantially delayed, approval is granted on a narrow basis or 40 with restricted distribution or other burdensome post-approval requirements, or if the Fampridine-SR program is terminated, our business prospects will be adversely affected. In March 2004, we completed two Phase 3 clinical trials of Fampridine-SR in SCI in which our results failed to reach their primary endpoints. We expect to resume development of Fampridine-SR for SCI after we have completed further development of the drug for MS. We cannot predict whether future clinical trials of Fampridine-SR in SCI will achieve their primary endpoints, how long these clinical trials will take or how much they will cost. Our other drug development programs are in early stages of development and may never be commercialized. All of our development programs other than Fampridine-SR are in the preclinical phase. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to select promising product candidates, complete preclinical development of these product candidates and advance them to clinical trials. These product candidates will require significant development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory clearances and substantial additional investment before they can be commercialized. Our preclinical programs may not lead to commercially viable products for several reasons. For example, we may fail to identify promising product candidates, our product candidates may fail to be safe and effective in preclinical tests or clinical trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue discovery and development efforts for new product candidates. In addition, because we have limited resources, we are focusing on product candidates that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may delay or forego pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our product candidates and programs; however, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our preclinical programs into clinical testing or in obtaining regulatory approval, our long-term business prospects will be harmed. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation and failure to obtain regulatory approval will prevent commercialization of our product candidates. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities, as well as the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop, are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any regulatory approvals may contain limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, distribution restrictions or may be conditioned on burdensome post-approval study or other requirements, including the requirement that we institute and follow a special risk management plan to monitor and manage potential safety issues, all of which may eliminate or reduce the drug’s market potential. Post-market evaluation of a product could result in marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market. The results of preclinical and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of whether a product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in larger patient populations, as evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials. Additional adverse events that could impact commercial success, or even continued regulatory approval, might emerge with more extensive post-approval patient use. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. In order to conduct clinical trials to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any product candidate, an IND application must first be submitted to the FDA and must become effective before clinical trials may begin. Subsequently, an NDA must be submitted to the FDA, including the results of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective 41 for use in humans for each target indication. In addition, the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products must comply with current good manufacturing practices and must pass a pre-approval FDA inspection. Extensive submissions of preclinical and clinical trial data are required to demonstrate the safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. The FDA may refuse to accept our regulatory submissions for filing if they are incomplete. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA to ensure compliance with the FDA’s good clinical practice requirements, as well as other requirements for the protection of clinical trial participants. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices required by regulators. If any such standards are not complied with in our clinical trials, the resulting data from the clinical trial may not be usable or we, an institutional review board or the FDA may suspend or terminate such trial, which would severely delay our development and possibly end the development of such product candidate. We also depend upon third party manufacturers of our products to qualify for FDA approval and to comply with good manufacturing practices required by regulators. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers and suppliers will comply with current good manufacturing practices. The failure to comply with good manufacturing practices may result in the termination of clinical studies, restrictions in the sale of, or withdrawal of the products from the market. Compliance by third parties with these standards and practices is outside of our direct control. In addition, we are subject to regulation under other state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot predict the impact of such regulations on us, although it could impose significant restrictions on our business and additional expenses to comply with these regulations. Our products and product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue. Market acceptance of our products and product candidates will depend on the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness and our ability to demonstrate these benefits to physicians and patients. We believe market acceptance also depends on the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, as well as on the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our products are not useful to them. For example, physicians may not believe that the benefits of Zanaflex Capsules outweigh their higher cost in relation to Zanaflex tablets or generic tizanidine tablets. The failure of any of our products or product candidates, once approved, to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. Our potential products may not be commercially viable if we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products by Medicaid, Medicare or other third-party payors. Our commercial success will depend in part on third-party payors, such as government health administrative authorities, including Medicaid and Medicare, private health insurers and other such organizations, agreeing to reimburse patients for the cost of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products. Our business would be materially adversely affected if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other third-party payors were to deny reimbursement for our products or provide reimbursement only on unfavorable terms. Our business could also be adversely affected if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or 42 payors limit the indications for which our products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of indications than we believe is appropriate. Third-party payors frequently require that drug companies negotiate agreements with them that provide discounts or rebates from list prices. At present we do not have any such agreements with private third-party payors and only a small number of such agreements with government payors. If sales of Zanaflex Capsules increase we may need to offer larger discounts or discounts to a greater number of third-party payors to maintain acceptable reimbursement levels. If we were required to negotiate such agreements, there is no guarantee that we would be able to negotiate them at price levels that are profitable to us, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining reimbursement for our products at acceptable levels, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, if our competitors reduce the prices of their products, or otherwise demonstrate that they are better or more cost effective than our products, this may result in a greater level of reimbursement for their products relative to our products, which would reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience pressure to lower prices on our approved products due to new and/or proposed federal legislation. Federal legislation enacted in December 2003 added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, effective January 2006. In the interim, Congress has established a discount drug card program for Medicare beneficiaries. Both benefits will be provided primarily through private entities, which will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices. While the new law specifically prohibits the U.S. government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit the U.S. government to use its enormous purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the new law contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include limitations on prescription drug prices. This Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, as well as additional healthcare legislation that may be enacted at a future date, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our approved products, or obtain marketing approval before we obtain approval of future products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Composition of matter patents on tizanidine, the active ingredient in Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets, expired in 2002. There are currently 12 generic versions of tizanidine tablets on the market. To the extent that we are not able to differentiate Zanaflex Capsules from Zanaflex tablets and generic tizanidine tablets and/or pharmacists improperly substitute generic tizanidine tablets when filling prescriptions for Zanaflex Capsules, we may be unable to convert a meaningful amount of sales of Zanaflex tablets and generic tizanidine tablets to Zanaflex Capsules and our ability to generate revenue from this product will be adversely affected. Although no other FDA-approved capsule formulation of tizanidine exists, another company could develop a capsule or other formulation of tizanidine that competes with Zanaflex Capsules. Many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, are involved in research and/or product development for various neurological diseases, including MS and SCI. We are aware of a company developing a sodium/potassium channel blocker and a second company developing an immediate release form of fampridine, both of which may compete with Fampridine-SR, if approved. In certain circumstances, pharmacists are not prohibited from formulating certain drug compounds to fill prescriptions on an individual patient basis. We are aware that at present compounded fampridine is used 43 by some people with MS or SCI and it is possible that some people will want to continue to use compounded formulations even if Fampridine-SR is approved. Several companies are engaged in developing products that include novel immune system approaches and cell transplant approaches to remyelination for the treatment of people with MS. These programs are in early stages of development and may compete in the future with Fampridine-SR or our preclinical candidates. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our products or the ones we have under development or that render our approved or proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective, safer or more convenient for patients, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and recover the substantial development costs we have incurred and will continue to incur. Our products may be subject to competition from lower-priced versions of such products and competing products imported into the United States from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. Our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms or at all. On December 31, 2005, on a pro forma as-adjusted basis after giving effect to our initial public offering in February 2006, we would have approximately $45.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Although we anticipate this will be sufficient to fund our operations for up to the next 18 months, we have several product candidates in various stages of development, and all will require significant further investment to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval prior to commercialization. We will likely need to seek additional equity or debt financing or strategic collaborations to continue our product development activities, and could require substantial funding to commercialize any products that we successfully develop. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. To the extent that we are able to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of those securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. Holders of such new equity securities may also have rights, preference or privileges that are senior to yours. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, we may become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. To the extent funding is raised through collaborations or intellectual property-based financings, we may be required to give up some or all of the rights and related intellectual property to one or more of our products, product candidates or preclinical programs. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms when and if needed, we may be required to reduce, defer or discontinue one or more of our product development programs or devote fewer resources to marketing Zanaflex Capsules. Under our financing arrangement with PRF, upon the occurrence of certain events, PRF may require us to repurchase the right to receive revenues that we assigned to it or may foreclose on certain assets that secure our obligations to PRF. Any exercise by PRF of its right to cause us to repurchase the assigned right or any foreclosure by PRF could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. On December 23, 2005, we entered into a revenue interests assignment agreement with PRF pursuant to which we assigned to PRF the right to receive a portion of our net revenues from Zanaflex Capsules, Zanaflex tablets and any future Zanaflex products. To secure our obligations to PRF, we also granted PRF a security interest in substantially all of our assets related to Zanaflex. 44 Under our arrangement with PRF, upon the occurrence of certain events, including if we experience a change of control, undergo certain bankruptcy events, transfer any of our interests in Zanaflex (other than pursuant to a license agreement, development, commercialization, co-promotion, collaboration, partnering or similar agreement), transfer all or substantially all of our assets, or breach certain of the covenants, representations or warranties under the revenue interests assignment agreement, PRF may (i) require us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it at the “put/call price” in effect on the date such right is exercised or (ii) foreclose on the Zanaflex assets that secure our obligations to PRF. Except in the case of certain bankruptcy events, if PRF exercises its right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it, PRF may not foreclose unless we fail to pay the put/call price as required. The put/call price on a given date is the greater of (i) 150% of all payments made by PRF to us as of such date, less all payments received by PRF from us as of such date, and (ii) an amount that would generate an internal rate of return to PRF of 25% on all payments made by PRF to us as of such date, taking into account the amount and timing of all payments received by PRF from us as of such date. If PRF were to exercise its right to cause us to repurchase the right we assigned to it, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available to pay the put/call price in effect at that time. Even if we have sufficient funds available, we may have to use funds that we planned to use for other purposes and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If PRF were to foreclose on the Zanaflex assets that secure our obligations to PRF, our results of operations and financial condition could also be adversely affected. Because PRF’s right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it is triggered by, among other things, a change in control, transfer of any of our interests in Zanaflex (other than pursuant to a license agreement, development, commercialization, co-promotion, collaboration, partnering or similar agreement) or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets, the existence of that right could discourage us or a potential acquirer from entering into a business transaction that would result in the occurrence of any of those events. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. Our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with our scientific and medical network and the network of centers in the United States and Canada that conducts our clinical trials. We are highly dependent on the services of Dr. Ron Cohen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as the other principal members of our management and scientific staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. With the exception of Dr. Ron Cohen, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on the lives of our officers, directors or employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. If the use or misuse of Zanaflex Capsules or any other FDA-approved products we may sell in the future harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, third-party payors or others. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials could also expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that includes coverage of our clinical trials. This insurance policy has a $10 million per claim limit and the aggregate amount of claims under the policy is also capped at $10 million. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of our products or the testing of product candidates and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we 45 currently have may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could give rise to a substantial liability that could exceed our resources. Even if claims are not successful, the costs of defending such claims and potential adverse publicity could be harmful to our business. We are subject to various federal and state laws regulating the marketing of Zanaflex Capsules and, if we do not comply with these regulations, we could face substantial penalties. Our sales, promotion and other activities related to Zanaflex Capsules, or any of our other products under development following their regulatory approval, are subject to regulatory and law enforcement authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including both federal and state anti-kickback laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration as an inducement for the referral of business, including the use, recommendation, purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors” or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. Although we seek to comply with these statutes, it is possible that our practices, or those of our contract sales force, might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and future exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs. We may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with post-approval legal and regulatory requirements and our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we currently have or may obtain marketing approval, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data that we might be required to collect and the advertising and promotional activities for the product, are subject to continual recordkeeping and reporting requirements, review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Regulatory approval of a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other restrictive conditions of approval that limit our ability to promote, sell or distribute a product. Furthermore, any approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. We have an outstanding commitment with the FDA, inherited from Elan, to evaluate Zanaflex Capsules for pediatric use. Although the commitment was orginally set by the FDA to be completed by December 2005, we believe that it was extended to February 2007, by the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA. We are seeking from the FDA either confirmation that the commitment is due February 2007 or, if not confirmed, we will seek a deferral until that date. The NDA for Zanaflex Capsules was approved with the requirement to provide safety data in children and through a pediatric pharmacokinetic study. We have submitted a proposed design for this pharmacokinetic study to the FDA. Depending on the FDA’s response to our submission or the outcome of this study, we may be required to conduct additional studies. These studies could be more extensive and more costly than the currently-planned study. 46 Our advertising and promotion are subject to stringent FDA rules and oversight. In particular, the claims in our promotional materials and activities must be consistent with the FDA approvals for our products, and must be appropriately substantiated and fairly balanced with information on the safety risks and limitations of the products. Any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations. We must continually review adverse event information that we receive concerning our drugs and make expedited and periodic adverse event reports to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, the research, manufacturing, distribution, sale and promotion of drug and biological products are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. We may be slow to adapt, or we may not be able to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new legal or regulatory requirements or policies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; · withdrawal of product approvals; · product seizures; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; · restrictions on importation of our product candidates; · fines and injunctions; · civil and criminal penalties; · exclusion from participation in government programs; and · suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications. In addition, the FDA or another regulatory agency may conduct periodic unannounced inspections. If they determine that we are not in compliance with applicable requirements, they may issue a notice of inspectional observations. If the observations are significant, we may have to devote significant resources to respond and undertake appropriate corrective and preventive actions, which could adversely affect our business prospects. For example, the FDA recently completed an inspection relating to our adverse event and product complaint handling and reporting for Zanaflex. The FDA has issued to us a Form 483, Inspectional Observations, with five observations. We have completed or expect to complete shortly all necessary corrective actions. The cost of the corrective actions is not expected to be material. 47 State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports with the state on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. For example, California has enacted a statute requiring pharmaceutical companies to adopt a comprehensive compliance program that is in accordance with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers. This compliance program must include policies for compliance with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, as well as a specific annual dollar limit on gifts or other items given to individual healthcare professionals in California. The law requires posting policies on a company’s public web site along with an annual declaration of compliance. Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, and West Virginia have also enacted statutes of varying scope that impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing and payments and costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and promotional activities, as well as restrictions upon the types of gifts that may be provided to healthcare practitioners. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are not aware of any companies against which fines or penalties have been assessed under these state reporting and disclosure laws to date. We are currently in the process of developing a formal compliance infrastructure and standard operating procedures to comply with such laws. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. If we seek to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we will need to obtain regulatory approval in these jurisdictions. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Should we decide to market our products abroad, we may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for, and may not receive, necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market, which could adversely affect our business prospects. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials and chemicals that are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing their use, storage, handling and disposal. These materials include ketamine, buprenophine, sodium pentobarbital, ether, acetonitrile, hexanes, chloroform, xylene, dehydrated alcohol, methanol, ethyl alcohol, isopropanol and formaldehyde. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations, we could be subject to criminal sanctions and/or substantial liability for any damages that result, and any substantial liability could exceed our resources. We currently maintain a general liability insurance policy that has a $2 million per claim limit and also caps aggregate claims at $2 million. In addition, we have an umbrella insurance policy that covers up to $9 million of 48 liability in excess of the general liability policy’s $2 million limit. This amount of insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. In addition, the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations may be substantial. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We currently have no manufacturing capabilities and are substantially dependent upon Elan, Novartis and other third party suppliers to manufacture Zanaflex Capsules, Zanaflex tablets and Fampridine-SR. We do not own or operate, and currently do not plan to own or operate, manufacturing facilities for production of Zanaflex Capsules, Zanaflex tablets or Fampridine-SR. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the production of our products and clinical trial materials. We rely on a single manufacturer, Elan, for the supply of Zanaflex Capsules. Zanaflex Capsules are manufactured using Elan’s proprietary SODAS multiparticulate drug delivery technology. Elan is obligated, in the event of a failure to supply Zanaflex Capsules, to use commercially reasonable efforts to assist us in either producing Zanaflex Capsules ourselves or in transferring production of Zanaflex Capsules to a third-party manufacturer, provided that such third-party manufacturer is not a technological competitor of Elan. In the event production is transferred to a third party, the FDA may require us to demonstrate through bioequivalence studies and laboratory testing that the product made by the new supplier is equivalent to the current Zanaflex Capsules before we could distribute products from that supplier. The process of transferring the technology and qualifying the new supplier could take a year or more. Under our supply agreement with Elan, we provide Elan with monthly written 18-month forecasts and with annual written two-year forecasts of our supply requirements for Zanaflex Capsules. In each of the five months following the submission of our written 18-month forecast we are obligated to purchase the quantity specified in the forecast, even if our actual requirements are greater or less. Elan is not obligated to supply us with quantities in excess of our forecasted amounts, although it has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to do so. Because we have a limited history of selling Zanaflex Capsules, our forecasts of our supply requirements may be inaccurate. As a result, we may have an excess or insufficient supply of Zanaflex Capsules. The Elan facility located in Gainesville, Georgia, which is responsible for bottling Zanaflex Capsules, has been operating under a court-ordered consent decree and injunction since 2001, which were imposed following adverse FDA inspections and FDA allegations that the facility was failing to comply with current good manufacturing requirements. These prior issues were not related to the manufacture of our products. If, however, Elan fails to comply with the requirements of the consent decree and injunction, it could be held in contempt and the facility could be shut down and the manufacturing of our products halted or interrupted. We currently rely on Novartis for our supply of Zanaflex tablets and tizanidine, the API in both Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets. Under a supply agreement we assumed from Elan, Novartis is responsible for manufacturing Zanaflex tablets and tizanidine for us through February 2007. This includes the tizanidine that Elan uses to manufacture Zanaflex Capsules for us. We have arranged for another company, Sharp Corporation, to package and bottle Zanaflex tablets. Novartis has discontinued production of tizanidine and transferred the methods of manufacturing tizanidine to Rohner, a manufacturer in Pratteln, Switzerland. We have also identified an alternate source for tizanidine in collaboration with Elan but do not have an agreement with that alternative source or any other alternate manufacturer. By the expiration of our contract with Novartis in 2007, we will need to have established a direct relationship with an alternative supplier of tizanidine for Zanaflex tablets if we want them to continue to be manufactured. 49 We also rely exclusively on Elan to supply us with our requirements for Fampridine-SR. Elan relies on a third-party manufacturer to supply fampridine, the API in Fampridine-SR. Under our supply agreement with Elan, we are obligated to purchase at least 75% of our yearly supply of Fampridine-SR from Elan, and we are required to make compensatory payments if we do not purchase 100% of our requirements from Elan, subject to certain exceptions. We and Elan have agreed that we may purchase up to 25% of our annual requirements from Patheon, Inc., a mutually agreed-upon and qualified second manufacturing source, without compensatory payment. Our dependence on others to manufacture our marketed products and clinical trial materials may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products on a timely and competitive basis. If third-party contract research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our preclinical testing or clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our preclinical testing or clinical trials ourselves. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical testing or clinical trials. The failure of any of these vendors to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory requirements, such as good clinical and laboratory practices, or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocols, could cause a delay or otherwise adversely affect on our preclinical testing or clinical trials and ultimately on the timely advancement of our development programs. We rely on third parties to provide sales representatives to market Zanaflex Capsules to primary care physicians. We rely on third parties to provide sales representatives to market Zanaflex Capsules to primary care physicians. In August 2005, we retained Cardinal Health to provide us with a contract sales force of approximately 160 sales representatives, on a non-exclusive basis, to call on primary care physicians. Primary care sales did not reach the targets specified in our agreement, and we have provided notice of termination of the agreement. The parties are in discussions regarding potential payment, if any, of costs and fees. We are in the process of initiating a pilot program targeted to primary care physicians with another sales representative organization. We will continue to rely on third parties as we continue to evaluate this market opportunity for Zanaflex Capsules. These contract sales representatives are not our employees and we do not have control over their performance or compliance with applicable laws. Their failure to increase prescriptions for Zanaflex Capsules from the targeted primary care physicians would negatively impact our sales growth, and their failure to comply with applicable laws could subject us to liability. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our and our licensors’ ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for the technologies, compounds and products, if any, resulting from our licenses and development programs. Without protection for the intellectual property we use, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished. We have in-licensed or are the assignee of over 25 U.S. patents, over 60 foreign patents and over 65 patent applications pending in the United States or abroad for our own technologies and for technologies 50 from our in-licensed programs. The process of obtaining patents can be time consuming and expensive with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent may not issue or it may not have sufficient scope or strength to protect the technology it was intended to protect or to provide us with any commercial advantage. We may never be certain that we were the first to develop the technology or that we were the first to file a patent application for the particular technology because U.S. patent applications are confidential until they are published, and publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights will remain uncertain if our pending patent applications are not approved for any reason or if we are unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our issued patents or the patents of our licensors. We may initiate actions to protect our intellectual property and in any litigation in which our patents or our licensors’ patents are asserted, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of these patents is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by the patent claims. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, would be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and which could have an adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Policing unauthorized use of our or our licensors’ intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. 51 If third parties successfully claim that we infringed their patents or proprietary rights, our ability to continue to develop and successfully commercialize our product candidates could be delayed. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others relating to any of our marketed products or product candidates, we may be required to: · pay substantial damages; · stop using our technologies; · stop certain research and development efforts; · develop non-infringing products or methods, which may not be feasible; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties. In addition, from time to time, we become aware of third parties who have, or claim to have, intellectual property rights covering matters such as methods for doing business, conducting research, diagnosing diseases or prescribing medications that are alleged to be broadly applicable across sectors of the industry, and we may receive assertions that these rights apply to us. The existence of such intellectual property rights could present a risk to our business. A license required under any patents or proprietary rights held by a third party may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates and advancing our preclinical programs. We are dependent on our license agreements and if we fail to meet our obligations under these license agreements, or our agreements are terminated for any reason, we may lose our rights to our in-licensed patents and technologies. We are dependent on licenses for intellectual property related to Zanaflex, Fampridine-SR and all of our preclinical programs. Our failure to meet any of our obligations under these license agreements could result in the loss of our rights to this intellectual property. If we lose our rights under any of these license agreements, we may be unable to commercialize a product that uses licensed intellectual property. We could lose our rights to Fampridine-SR under our license agreement with Elan in countries in which we have a license, including the United States, if we fail to file regulatory approvals within a commercially reasonable time after completion and receipt of positive data from all preclinical and clinical studies required for the related NDA, or any NDA-equivalent. We could also lose our rights under our license agreement with Elan if we fail to launch a product in such countries, within 180 days of NDA or equivalent approval. Elan could also terminate our license agreement if we fail to make payments due under the license agreement. If we lose our rights to Fampridine-SR our prospects for generating revenue and recovering our substantial investment in the development of this product would be materially harmed. 52 Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. We only recently completed our initial public offering. Prior to our initial public offering, you could not buy or sell our common stock publicly. An active public market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the current market price if trading in our stock is not active. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; · litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · governmental regulation and legislation in the United States and foreign countries; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; · sales of substantial amounts of our stock; · variations in product revenue and profitability; and · variations in our anticipated or actual operating results. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In connection with our recently completed initial public offering, our executive officers and directors and substantially all of our pre-initial public offering stockholders and option-holders executed lock-up agreements that prohibits them from selling, offering to sell, contracting or agreeing to sell, hypothecating, pledging, granting any option to purchase or otherwise dispose of or agree to dispose of any shares of our common stock for the 180 day period from the date of our initial public offering, subject to extension in certain limited circumstances. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the prospect of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 9, 2006 we have outstanding 19,622,624 shares of common stock. We have registered 5,481,334 shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance under our stock plans. As of December 31, 2005, there were options to acquire 1,770,494 shares of common stock outstanding, exercisable at an average exercise price of $4.80 per share. As of December 31, 2005, there were warrants to acquire 50,200 shares of common stock outstanding, exercisable at an average exercise price of $5.95 per share. To the extent that option and warrant holders exercise outstanding options and warrants, there may be further dilution and the sales of shares issued upon such exercises could cause our stock price to drop further. 53 If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control the outcome of a stockholder vote. Our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock will beneficially own approximately 33.4% of our common stock. Moreover, a majority of our directors are principals or representatives of entities that own substantial amounts of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval or mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempt by our stockholders to replace our current directors or officers. These provisions include: · Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. · Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges determined by the board of directors. The ability to authorize and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences on a discriminatory basis that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. · Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each with staggered three-year terms. As a result, only one class of directors will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, and each of the two other classes of directors will continue to serve for the remainder of their respective three-year terms, limiting the ability of stockholders to reconstitute the board of directors. · The vote of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is required in order to take certain actions, including amendment of our bylaws, removal of directors for cause and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holders has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could have the effect of reducing your ability to receive a premium on your common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value after the offering or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. 54 