Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. Risks related to our business We have a history of operating losses and, although we were profitable in 2012, we may not be able to sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $254.5 million. Although we had net income of $155.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, which includes a tax benefit recorded for a release of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, and $30.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, prior to 2011 we had operating losses each year since inception as a result of our significant clinical development, research and development, general and administrative, sales, managed markets and marketing, medical affairs and business development expenses. We will continue to invest significant amounts in marketing our approved products, in our product development and research and development activities, and, potentially, to acquire new products and product candidates. 39 Table of Contents Our prospects for sustaining profitability will depend primarily on how successful we are in: · Increasing our sales levels for Ampyra in the U.S. and supporting Biogen Idec’s efforts to successfully obtain and maintain regulatory approval for Fampyra (as Fampridine Prolonged Release tablets) in the EU and other markets outside the U.S.; · expanding the Ampyra franchise through additional patent protection for Ampyra, new formulations, and additional indications in MS and possibly other conditions such as cerebral palsy and post-stroke deficits; · Obtaining FDA approval for, and commercializing, the Diazepam Nasal Spray product that we acquired from Neuronex, Inc. in December 2012; · continuing to advance clinical development of our AC105, rHIgM22, and GGF2 programs; · continuing to develop our preclinical product candidates and advance them into clinical trials; and · evaluating and potentially expanding our product development pipeline through the potential inlicensing and/or acquisition of additional products and technologies If we are not successful in executing our business plan, we may not sustain profitability. Also, even if we are successful in executing our business plan, our profitability may fluctuate from period to period due to our level of investments in marketing, research and development, and product and product candidate acquisitions. For example, in 2013 we expect to invest a significant amount in continuing the development of, and seeking FDA approval for, the Diazepam Nasal Spray product. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels or there is a change in ownership of Acorda. In general, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize net operating losses (NOLs), to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $205.1 million of NOLs available to reduce taxable income in future years. Losses for federal income tax purposes can generally be carried forward for a period of 20 years. We believe it is more likely than not that we will use these net operating losses. However, the ability to use net operating loss carryforwards will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. The net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. Our ability to utilize the NOL's may be further limited if we undergo an ownership change, as defined in section 382. This ownership change could be triggered by substantial changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock, which are generally outside of our control. An ownership change would exist if the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock, or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL's. If an ownership change were to occur, the annual limitation under Section 382 could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL asset and, as a result, could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and Puerto Rico. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax liabilities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. If the Internal Revenue Service, or other taxing authority, disagrees with the positions taken by our company, we could have additional tax liability, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, the United States government may adopt tax reform measures that significantly increase our worldwide tax liabilities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will be highly dependent on the commercial success of Ampyra in the U.S. for the foreseeable future, as sales of Zanaflex Capsules continue declining due to generic competition; we may be unable to meet our expectations with respect to Ampyra sales and/or sustain profitability and positive cash flow from operations. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of Ampyra. We believe that sales of Ampyra will continue to constitute a significant and growing portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Net revenue from Zanaflex Capsules declined significantly in 2012 due to the introduction of generic versions of tizanidine hydrochloride capsules, including our own authorized generic version, and we expect that net revenue from this product will continue to decline further in 2013 and beyond. The continued commercial success of Ampyra, which first became commercially available in March 2010, will depend on a number of factors, including: · the effectiveness of our sales, managed markets and marketing efforts; · the acceptance of Ampyra in the medical community, particularly with respect to whether physicians and patients view Ampyra as safe and effective for its labeled indication, and whether it has an acceptable benefit-to-risk profile; · the availability of adequate reimbursement by third-party payers; · the continued use of compounded dalfampridine, instead of Ampyra, available through pharmacies in the U.S. and elsewhere that engage in compounding; · the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse (or any unfavorable publicity relating thereto) stemming from the use of Ampyra; and · the development of competing products or therapies for the treatment of MS or its symptoms. We have no manufacturing capabilities and are dependent upon Alkermes (formerly Elan) and other third-parties to supply the materials for, and to manufacture, Ampyra and our other commercial products and products in development. We do not own or operate, and currently do not plan to own or operate, facilities for production and packaging of Ampyra or our other commercial products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the production and packaging of our commercial products and clinical trial materials for those and other products. We rely on Alkermes to supply us with our requirements for Ampyra. Under our supply agreement with Alkermes, we are obligated to purchase at least 75% of our yearly supply of Ampyra from Alkermes, and we are required to make compensatory payments if we do not purchase 100% of our requirements from Alkermes, subject to specified exceptions. We and Alkermes have agreed that we may purchase up to 25% of our annual 41 Table of Contents requirements from Patheon, a mutually agreed-upon second manufacturing source, with compensatory payment. We and Alkermes also rely on a single third-party manufacturer, Regis, to supply dalfampridine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in Ampyra. If Regis experiences any disruption in their operations, a delay or interruption in the supply of our Ampyra product could result until Regis cures the problem or we locate an alternate source of supply. Under our supply agreement with Alkermes, we provide Alkermes with monthly written 18-month forecasts, and with annual written five-year forecasts for our supply requirements of Ampyra. In each of the three months for Ampyra following the submission of our written 18-month forecast, we are obligated to purchase the quantity specified in the forecast, even if our actual requirements are greater or less. Alkermes is not obligated to supply us with quantities in excess of our forecasted amounts, although it has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to do so. If our forecasts of our supply requirements are inaccurate, we may have an excess or insufficient supply of Ampyra. We similarly rely on Alkermes and other third parties for the manufacture of our Zanaflex and authorized tizanidine hydrochloride generic products and the supply of tizanidine hydrochloride, the API in those products, and for the supply of materials for our research and development activities, particularly clinical trials. Also, we have not yet established arrangements for the manufacture of Diazepam Nasal Spray or the supply of the API for Diazepam Nasal Spray, which will be subject to FDA approval, but we will rely on third parties as we do for our other products. Our dependence on others to manufacture and provide the API for our marketed products and clinical trial materials may harm our ability to develop and commercialize our products on a timely and competitive basis. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and lower product revenue, which would harm our business. The manufacture and distribution of our products, including product components such as API, is highly regulated, and any failure by us or our third party suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our supply of products. U.S. and foreign governments and regulatory authorities continue to propose legislative and other measures relating to the manufacture or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including revisions to current good manufacturing practices (“cGMPs”). For example, new rules that take effect in the EU on July 2, 2013 permit the import of API from outside the EU only if it has been manufactured in accordance with cGMPs equivalent to those applicable in the EU and is accompanied by written confirmation from the regulatory authority in the country of manufacture. Compliance with such new legislative or regulatory measures may increase the price we must pay for our products or otherwise adversely affect our supply of products. Even though we have obtained marketing approval for Ampyra, the approval is subject to a REMS and post-marketing commitments, which may affect the success of Ampyra. The marketing approval we received for Ampyra is subject to risk mitigation activities we must undertake in accordance with a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, a commitment to report all seizures we learn about in post-approval use to the FDA on an expedited basis. If our REMS and other measures are not effective in preventing or minimizing the prevalence of seizures or other serious safety risks, the approval of Ampyra could be further limited or withdrawn, or we might be required to undertake additional burdensome post-approval activities. In addition, failure to meet our post-approval commitments could lead to negative regulatory action by the FDA, which could include withdrawal of regulatory approval. The marketing approval for Ampyra was also subject to requirements for follow-up animal and clinical studies and analyses. We have completed these studies and we believe we have satisfied these requirements, but they remain subject to FDA review. Also, our Ampyra post-marketing approval requirements included a commitment to the FDA to conduct a trial to evaluate a 5mg twice daily dosing regimen, the results from which we announced in August 2012. Although we believe that the study failed to confirm efficacy of the 5mg dose, and that the study, together with the Ampyra registration studies, continue to show that 10 mg. twice daily is the appropriate, safe and effective dose, the study results were provided to the FDA and we cannot predict whether the FDA will request that we conduct any additional studies or make a lower dose of Ampyra available. 42 Table of Contents The FDA-approved product labeling for Ampyra limits promotional opportunities for Ampyra, which may harm market acceptance of Ampyra. Ampyra was approved with an indicated use limited to improving walking in patients with MS and specifies that this was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed. The approved labeling also contains other limitations on use and warnings and contraindications for risks. If potential purchasers or those influencing purchasing decisions, such as physicians and pharmacists or third party payers, react negatively to Ampyra because of their perception of the limitations or safety risks in the approved product labeling, it may result in lower product acceptance and lower product revenues. In addition, our promotion of Ampyra must reflect only the specific approved indication as well as other limitations on use, and disclose the safety risks associated with the use of Ampyra as set out in the approved product labeling. We must submit all promotional materials to the FDA at the time of their first use. If the FDA raises concerns regarding our promotional materials or messages, we may be required to modify or discontinue using them and provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners, and we may face other adverse enforcement action. For example, in June 2012 we received an untitled letter from the FDA stating that one of our Ampyra promotional videos did not comply with applicable law and was misleading because it overstated the efficacy of and minimized important safety information associated with Ampyra. In compliance with the untitled FDA letter, we discontinued use of the video, and in light of the FDA letter we also evaluated and discontinued the use of some other promotional materials. Based on a September 2012 letter from the FDA, we believe that we have resolved the specific issues identified by the FDA in the June untitled letter but we have a continuing obligation to ensure that our promotional materials are compliant. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects of Ampyra, or known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, our business would be harmed and these events could lead to a significant decrease in sales of Ampyra or to the FDA’s withdrawal of marketing approval. Based on our clinical trials, the side effects of Ampyra include seizures, urinary tract infection, trouble sleeping (insomnia), dizziness, headache, nausea, weakness, back pain, and problems with balance. However, if we or others identify previously unknown side effects, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, or if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for Ampyra or any products perceived to be similar to Ampyra, then in any of these circumstances: · sales of Ampyra may be significantly decreased from projected sales; · regulatory approvals for Ampyra may be restricted or withdrawn; · we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; · reformulation of the product, additional preclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or reapprovals of manufacturing facilities may be required; · our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and · government investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of Ampyra and increase our expenses, which would impair our business. Furthermore, since Ampyra is commercially available, it is being used in a wider population and in a less rigorously controlled environment than in clinical studies. Some patients exposed to Ampyra have reportedly experienced serious adverse side effects, including seizures. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare 43 Table of Contents practitioners, third party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of Ampyra is associated with serious adverse effects, which could result in harm to Ampyra sales and our profitability. For example, as part of an annual REMS review of Ampyra, in July 2012 the FDA issued a safety communication relating to seizures based on post-marketing data from March 2010 through March 2011. These data showed no new safety signals related to seizure risk with Ampyra and are consistent with the data from clinical trials of Ampyra. However, the FDA safety updates and related changes that we have made to the Ampyra product labeling, or additional changes that we might have to make in the future, could change perceptions about Ampyra safety and therefore harm sales. We also constantly monitor adverse event reports for signals regarding potential additional adverse events, which could result in the need for further label changes, which might harm Ampyra sales. For example, in September 2012 we made another label change relating to reports of anaphylactic reactions. Under FDA regulations and our REMS for Ampyra, we are required to monitor the safety of Ampyra and inform health care professionals about the risks of drug-associated seizures with Ampyra. We are required to document and investigate reports of adverse events, and to report them to the FDA in accordance with regulatory timelines based on their severity and expectedness. Failure to make timely safety reports and to establish and maintain related records could result in withdrawing of marketing authorization or other regulatory action, civil actions against us, or criminal penalties, any of which could harm our business. For example, in late 2010 and early 2011, we learned that two of the specialty pharmacies that dispense Ampyra failed to timely report to us some of the reports of adverse events that they received, which we believe was in violation of our contracts with them. We reported these adverse events to the FDA immediately upon receipt. However, because the specialty pharmacies did not report these adverse events to us in a timely manner, they were considered late reports to the FDA. In 2011 the FDA conducted an inspection focused primarily on our adverse event reporting system, including the timeliness of reporting of adverse events by our specialty pharmacies. Issues were identified on a September 2011 Form 483, and then in May 2012 we received a warning letter from the FDA regarding some of the issues identified in the inspection. In December 2012 and January 2013, the FDA conducted two additional inspections. The first focused on our adherence to the Ampyra REMS and resulted in issuance of a FDA Form 483 with one written observation as well as six verbal comments. The second focused on adverse event reporting and resulted in the issuance of a Form 483 with six written observations as well as three verbal comments. The Form 483s and warning letter are discussed in further detail below in these risk factors. The FDA could take further regulatory action against us if our responses to the FDA 483 and warning letter items are not adequate or if we are unable to demonstrate adequate control over our adverse event reporting system. If the specialty pharmacies that we rely upon to sell Ampyra in the U.S. fail timely to report adverse events to us, or if we do not meet the requirements for safety reporting, our business may be harmed. Our success in increasing sales of Ampyra will depend on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of injectable, infused or certain other medications typically for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. Specialty pharmacies are commonly used to dispense MS drugs, many of which are injectable. The use of specialty pharmacies involves risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies will: · not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Ampyra, Ampyra adverse events, or Ampyra complaints; · not effectively dispense or support Ampyra; · reduce their efforts or discontinue dispensing or supporting Ampyra; · not devote the resources necessary to dispense Ampyra in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; 44 Table of Contents · be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; · not have the required licenses to distribute drugs; or · cease operations. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of Ampyra or any other marketed drug. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or, outside the U.S., other applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict promotion of a drug other than in accordance with labeling approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agency. Companies may not promote drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, we may not promote Ampyra in the U.S. for any indications other than improving walking ability in people with MS. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have engaged in off-label promotion may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding our marketed products are in compliance with off-label promotion restrictions, the FDA or another regulatory or enforcement authority may disagree. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In June 2012 we received an untitled letter from the FDA stating that one of our Ampyra promotional videos did not comply with applicable law and was misleading because it overstated the efficacy of Ampyra and minimized important risk information. This untitled FDA letter is discussed in further detail above in these risk factors. We are dependent on our collaboration with Biogen Idec to commercialize Ampyra outside of the U.S. (known as Fampyra outside the U.S.) Pursuant to our Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec, entered into in June 2009, we granted Biogen Idec an exclusive license to develop and commercialize Ampyra and other products containing aminopyridines in all territories outside the U.S. We may enter into additional collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize some of our product candidates in the future. Our dependence on Biogen Idec for the development and commercialization of Ampyra outside the U.S., and our dependence on future collaborators for development and commercialization of additional product candidates, will subject us to a number of risks, including: · we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; · collaborators may not be successful in their efforts to obtain regulatory approvals or adequate product reimbursement in a timely manner, or at all, as discussed in further detail below in these risk factors; · disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management's attention and resources; · collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our 45 Table of Contents proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; · collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; · business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; · a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; · the collaborations may be terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates; and · collaborators may experience financial difficulties. While the Company has negotiated some terms in the Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec intended to assist in protecting the Company's rights in certain of the circumstances listed above, there can be no assurance that these terms will provide the Company with adequate rights and remedies, and actions required to enforce such rights could be costly and time consuming. Our collaboration partner, Biogen Idec, will need to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions where they seek to market Fampyra. In order to market our products in the EU and many other foreign jurisdictions, separate regulatory approvals must be obtained and numerous and varying regulatory requirements must be complied with. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical and nonclinical testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We and our partner may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, individual countries, within the EU or elsewhere, may require additional steps after regulatory approval to gain access to national markets, such as agreements with pricing authorities and other agencies, that may harm the ability of us or our partner to market and sell products outside the U.S. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize Fampyra or other product candidates in foreign markets could materially harm our business prospects. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Biogen Idec has the right to develop and commercialize Fampyra in the EU and other markets outside the U.S. In January 2010, Biogen Idec submitted a centralized Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ampyra, known outside the U.S. as Fampyra (fampridine). In January 2011 the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, decided against approval. Biogen Idec, working closely with us, filed a formal appeal of the decision. In May 2011, the CHMP recommended conditional marketing authorization of, and in July 2011 Biogen Idec received conditional approval from the European Commission for, Fampyra (prolonged-release fampridine tablets) for the improvement of walking in adult patients with MS with walking disability (Expanded Disability Status Scale of 4-7). The conditional approval must be renewed annually, and there can be no assurance that Biogen Idec will be able to satisfy the requirements for maintaining the approval. For example, Biogen Idec needs to carry out additional studies of the benefits and safety of Fampyra, and the results of these studies could affect renewal of the approval. Any requirements to conduct supplemental trials would add to the cost and risks of development and approval. Additional or supplemental trials with respect to Fampyra or other product candidates could also produce findings that are inconsistent with the trial results we have previously submitted to 46 Table of Contents the FDA, in which case we would be obligated to report those findings to the FDA. Some of our drug development programs are in early stages of development and may never be commercialized. We have several research and development programs that are early-stage and either have not advanced to clinical trials or are only in Phase 1 trials. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to select successful product candidates, complete preclinical development of these product candidates and advance them to and through clinical trials. These product candidates will require significant development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory clearances and substantial additional investment before they can be commercialized. Our early-stage research and development programs may not lead to commercially viable products for several reasons. For example, we may fail to identify promising product candidates, our product candidates may fail to be safe and effective in preclinical tests or clinical trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue discovery and development efforts for new product candidates. In addition, because we have limited resources, we are focusing on product candidates that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may delay or forego pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our product candidates and programs, including, for example, development goals for our product candidates and programs set forth in this report. However, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our research and development programs into clinical testing or in obtaining regulatory approval, our long-term business prospects will be harmed. In addition to our research and development of new drugs, we are assessing new formulations of Ampyra, additional uses of Ampyra in MS, and the possible use of Ampyra in cerebral palsy, post-stroke deficits, and other neurological conditions. These are early stage programs and similarly may never lead to any new commercialized products or expansion of the Ampyra label for additional uses. These programs will require significant development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory approvals and substantial additional investment before they can be commercialized, if ever. Our drug products in development must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing them to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete, and the outcome of such trials is uncertain. Clinical development of any product candidate that we determine to take into clinical trials, including our clinical trials described in this report for our neuregulin Glial Growth Factor 2, our AC105 program, or rHIgM22, may be curtailed, redirected, delayed or eliminated at any time for some or all of the following reasons: · negative or ambiguous results regarding the efficacy of the product candidate; · undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials, or other unforeseen or undesirable safety issues that make the product candidate not medically or commercially viable; · inability to locate, recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · difficulty in determining meaningful end points or other measurements of success in our clinical trials; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of our product candidates manufactured under current 47 Table of Contents good manufacturing practices; · delays, suspension or termination of the trials imposed by us, an independent institutional review board for a clinical trial site, or clinical holds placed upon the trials by the FDA; · FDA approval of new drugs that are more effective than our product candidates; · change in the focus of our development efforts or a re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy; and · change in our financial position. A delay in or termination of any of our clinical development programs could harm our business. If third-party contract research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our preclinical testing or clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our preclinical testing or clinical trials ourselves. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical testing and clinical trials. The failure of any of these vendors to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory requirements, such as good clinical and laboratory practices, or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocols, could cause a delay or other adverse effect on our preclinical testing or clinical trials and ultimately on the timely advancement of our development programs. For example, the contract manufacturer that we were working with to produce rHIgM22 under cGMP filed for bankruptcy in 2008, delaying an IND filing that we had targeted for late 2009. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation and failure to obtain regulatory approval will prevent commercialization of our product candidates and, if we do not comply with FDA regulations if we obtain regulatory approval, approved products could be withdrawn from the market. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities, as well as the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop, are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Any regulatory approvals may contain limitations on the indicated usage of a drug or distribution restrictions, or may be conditioned on burdensome post-approval study or other requirements, including the requirement that we institute and follow a special risk management plan to monitor and manage potential safety issues, all of which may eliminate or reduce the drug's market potential. Additional adverse events that could impact commercial success, or even continued regulatory approval, might emerge with more extensive post-approval patient use. Post-market evaluation of a product could result in marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market. In order to conduct clinical trials to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any product candidate, an investigational new drug, or IND, application must first be submitted to the FDA and must become effective before clinical trials may begin. Subsequently, if the product candidate is regulated as a drug, a new drug application, or NDA, must be submitted to the FDA and approved before commercial marketing may begin. The NDA must include the results of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. If the product candidate, such as an antibody, is regulated as a biologic, a biologic application, or BLA, must be submitted and approved before commercial marketing may begin. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA or BLA to the FDA, and even fewer are approved for commercialization. In addition, the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products must comply with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and must pass a pre-approval FDA inspection. Extensive submissions of preclinical and clinical trial data are required to demonstrate the safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. The FDA may refuse to accept our regulatory submissions for 48 Table of Contents filing if they are incomplete. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA to ensure compliance with the FDA's good clinical practice requirements, as well as other requirements for the protection of clinical trial participants. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices required by regulators. If any of those standards are not complied with in a clinical trial, the resulting data from the clinical trial may not be usable or we, an institutional review board or the FDA may suspend or terminate a trial, which would severely delay our development and possibly end the development of the product candidate. In addition, we are subject to regulation under other state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and we may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot predict the impact of those regulations on us, although they could impose significant restrictions on our business and we may have to incur additional expenses to comply with them. We also are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies related to other regulatory requirements that apply to drugs manufactured or distributed by us. If we receive a notice of inspectional observations or deficiencies from the FDA, we may be required to undertake corrective and preventive actions in order to address the FDA's concerns, which could be expensive and time-consuming to complete and could impose additional burdens and expenses on how we conduct the affected activities. For example, the FDA conducted two inspections beginning in July 2011. The first inspection focused on our REMS and the second inspection focused on our adverse event reporting system. The REMS inspection resulted in verbal comments pertaining to formalization of procedures and enhanced quality assurance responsibilities. The adverse event reporting inspection resulted in a September 2011 FDA Form 483 focused primarily on timeliness of reporting, formalization and enhancement of certain procedures and processes, communication of Ampyra post-marketing commitments, and Acorda access to source documentation. Acorda provided the FDA with formal responses to the inspectional observations as well as to the verbal comments and commenced the process of implementing specific actions to address the FDA’s concerns and enhance our overall pharmacovigilance process. However, in May 2012 the FDA issued a written warning letter based on some of the issues identified in the 2011 inspections. The FDA warning letter identified some of the FDA’s observations as repeat observations from prior FDA inspections. We have responded to the warning letter, advising the FDA of the corrective actions we are taking to address all of the matters covered in the warning letter. The FDA also conducted two inspections in December 2012 and January 2013. The first inspection focused on Ampyra REMS adherence and resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 with one written observation and six verbal comments. The written observation described a lack of timely distribution of REMS required letters to prescribers and pharmacists. The verbal comments pertained to verification and document control processes for REMS required letters, process control for creation and distribution of these letters and the medication guide, and the timing of prescriber surveys in relation to mailing of letters to the prescribers. The second inspection focused on adverse event reporting and was a follow-up to our responses to the 2011 FDA 483 and Warning Letter. This inspection resulted in an FDA Form 483 with six written observations and three verbal comments. The written observations noted late adverse event reporting, one late quarterly Periodic Adverse Experience Report, or PADER, and one late field alert. The FDA also noted that certain solicited adverse events were not reported in our PADERS and lack of consistent adherence to procedures for timely case follow-up and investigations. The verbal comments covered completeness and timeliness of investigations as well as need for further clarification of an existing procedure. We have responded to the Form 483s and oral comments, and intend to take and are taking necessary corrective actions. However, the FDA may decide that our responses and corrective actions are not adequate, or may conclude that we have not demonstrated adequate control over our current processes, and could take action against us, without further notice. Action by the FDA against us could require us to take further corrective actions or even that we stop marketing Ampyra and/or result in monetary 49 Table of Contents fines, and any of such actions by the FDA could harm our business. In addition, our third-party suppliers’ drug product manufacturing sites are subject to inspection by the FDA. Some of these sites have been inspected by the FDA and could be inspected by the FDA in the future. If the FDA inspects the process validation efforts and manufacturing process at these sites, the FDA might find what it considers to be deficiencies in the manufacturing process or process validation efforts, which could negatively impact the availability of product supply. We and our third-party suppliers are generally required to maintain compliance with cGMPs and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. In addition, the FDA must approve any significant changes to our suppliers or manufacturing methods. If we or our third-party suppliers cannot demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance, we may be required to withdraw or recall product and interrupt commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of our third-party suppliers to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. Non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, and damage our reputation. Even if our suppliers or manufacturing methods are in compliance with applicable requirements, we may encounter problems with the manufacture of our products. To investigate and/or resolve these problems, we may be required to withdraw or recall product and interrupt commercial supply of our products. These events could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, and damage our reputation. We are required to submit field alert reports to the FDA if we learn of certain reported problems with our products, and we are required to investigate the causes of the reported problems. We filed several field alerts in 2011, with respect to both Zanaflex Capsules and Ampyra, related to two reports of empty Zanaflex Capsules, two reports of empty Ampyra bottles and two incidents related to Ampyra bottle labels. While the issues contributing to these field alerts have been identified and addressed and the field alerts have been closed, inspections in the future could lead to product recalls and interruption of supplies, which in turn could harm our business. Our products and product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, and may not achieve adequate reimbursement, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue. Market acceptance of our products and product candidates depends on the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness and our ability to demonstrate these benefits to physicians and patients. We believe market acceptance also depends on the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, as well as on the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our products are not useful to them. For example, physicians may not believe that the benefits of Ampyra are meaningful for patients. As described above in these risk factors, FDA-approved product labeling for Ampyra is limited and may harm its market acceptance. Also, if Ampyra is not listed on the preferred drug lists of third-party payers, or Ampyra is on the preferred drug list but subject to unfavorable limitations or preconditions or in disadvantageous positions on tiered formularies, our sales may suffer. In the U.S., the federal government has provided significantly increased funding for comparative effectiveness research, which may compare our products with other treatments and may result in published findings that would, in turn, discourage use of our products by physicians and payments for our products by payers. Similar research is funded in other countries, including in Europe. The failure of any of our products or product candidates, once approved, to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would harm our results of operations. If our products are approved in the EU, their success there will also depend largely on obtaining and 50 Table of Contents maintaining government reimbursement because, in many European countries, patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with government authorities can delay commercialization. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may negatively impact revenue from sales of our products and therefore our ability or that of our partners, such as Biogen Idec, to sell our products on a profitable basis. Furthermore, cross-border imports from lower-priced markets (parallel imports) into higher-priced markets could harm sales of products by us or our partners, such as Biogen Idec, and exert commercial pressure on pricing within a country. In response to the recent downturn in global economic conditions, governments in a number of international markets have announced or implemented measures aimed at reducing healthcare costs to constrain the overall level of government expenditures. This includes Germany and other countries in the EU, where Biogen Idec has obtained approval for Fampyra. The measures vary by country and include, among other things, mandatory rebates and discounts, price reductions and suspensions on pricing increases on pharmaceuticals. These measures may negatively impact net revenue from Biogen Idec sales of Fampyra and therefore the amount of the royalty we receive from Biogen Idec. Furthermore, if these measures prevent Biogen Idec from selling Fampyra on a profitable basis in a particular country, they could prevent the commercial launch of Fampyra in that country. For example, in 2011 the German government implemented new legislation to manage pricing related to new drug products introduced within the German market through a review of each product’s comparative efficacy. Fampyra was launched by Biogen Idec in Germany in August 2011. In August 2012 the German Joint Federal Committee (G-BA) publicly announced its final assessment of the additional benefit of Fampyra, giving Fampyra a rating of no added benefit compared to physiotherapy. Although the G-BA decision did not impact access to Fampyra for patients in Germany, it provided a comparator price range that was the basis for Biogen Idec’s negotiation of a price for Fampyra in Germany with the Federal Association of Statutory Health Insurance Funds. The comparator price range is substantially lower than the price of Fampyra at launch in Germany. In addition, German prices are typically used by a number of other countries as a reference price, which therefore can negatively impact the price to be paid for reimbursement of Fampyra by other countries, particularly in the EU. A reduction in the price of Fampyra will reduce the amount of royalties Biogen Idec must pay us. Several additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products, including: · rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; · rate of a product’s acceptance by the target population, · timing of market entry relative to competitive products, · availability of alternative therapies, · perceived advantages of alternative therapies, · price of product relative to alternative therapies, · extent of marketing efforts, · unavailability of adequate reimbursement by third parties, and · side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning the products or similar products. If market acceptance of our products in the U.S., EU, or other countries does not meet expectations, our revenues or royalties from product sales would suffer and this could cause our stock price to decline. 51 Table of Contents If we market products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate false claims laws or fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, or other applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or additional reimbursement requirements and sanctions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The distribution, sale and promotion of drug and biological products are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Federal Trade Commission, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, and are affected by the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended, and similar state laws. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of safe harbors under these laws, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. All of these activities are also subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce or facilitate prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Numerous pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as: allegedly providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; and engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include requirements to make payments to government-funded health plans to correct for insufficient rebates by us or overpayments made to us, civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service Act pharmaceutical pricing program, which requires us to sell our products to certain customers at prices lower than we otherwise might be able to charge. For products to be made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, additional pricing laws and requirements apply, as do certain obligations imposed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Under the Veterans Health Care 52 Table of Contents Act of 1992, as amended (VHCA), we are required to offer certain drugs at a reduced price to a number of federal agencies, including the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense (DOD), the Public Health Service and certain private Public Health Service designated entities, in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Legislative changes in 2009 purport to require that discounted prices be offered for certain DOD purchases for its TRICARE program via a rebate system, and we may be required to make payments to cover discounts on certain past purchases. Participation under the VHCA requires submission of pricing data and calculation of discounts and rebates pursuant to complex statutory formulas, as well as the entry into government procurement contracts governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws for manipulating information submitted to the Medicaid Rebate Program or for knowingly submitting or using allegedly inaccurate pricing information in connection with federal pricing and discount programs. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us or our contractors, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. Our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. We or our contractors could make a mistake in calculating reported prices and required discounts, revisions to those prices and discounts, or determining whether a revision is necessary, which could result in retroactive rebates (and interest, if any). Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. If we make these mistakes or if governmental agencies make these changes, we could face, in addition to prosecution under federal and state false claims laws, substantial liability and civil monetary penalties, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines or imprisonment or prosecutors may impose a Corporate Integrity Agreement, Deferred Prosecution Agreement, or similar arrangement. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, Congress enacted legislation known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act), which substantially changes the way that healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. This law contains a number of provisions, including provisions governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, the increased development of comparative effectiveness research for use in healthcare decision-making, and enhancements to fraud and abuse requirements and enforcement, that will affect existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. In June 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act’s mandate to purchase health insurance but rejected specific funding provisions that incentivized states to expand their current Medicaid programs. As a result of this ruling, we currently expect implementation of most of the major provisions of the Act to continue. Changes to the Affordable Care Act, or other federal legislation regarding health care access, financing, or delivery and other actions taken by individual states concerning the possible expansion of Medicaid could impact our financial position or results of operations. A number of provisions contained in the Affordable Care Act may harm our net revenue for our marketed products and any future products. The law, among other things, increased the minimum basic Medicaid rebate for branded prescription drugs from 15.1% to 23.1% and requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay states rebates on prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid managed care enrollees. In addition, the Affordable Care Act increased the additional Medicaid rebate on “line extensions” (such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, revised the definition of average manufacturer price by changing the classes of purchasers included in the calculation, and expanded the entities eligible for discounted 340B pricing. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may also lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. 53 Table of Contents The law also requires drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on prescriptions for branded products filled while the beneficiary is in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also known as the “donut hole.” In addition, the Affordable Care Act imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. The fee (which is not deductible for federal income tax purposes) is based on the manufacturer’s market share of sales of branded drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs) to, or pursuant to coverage under, specified U.S. government programs. The Affordable Care Act also includes substantial provisions affecting compliance. For example, beginning in August 2013, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to collect information on payments or other transfers of value made to healthcare providers. The collected information will have to be disclosed in reports that will be placed on a public database. Similarly, pharmaceutical manufacturers will also be required to report samples of prescription drugs requested by and distributed to healthcare providers based on forthcoming guidance from the FDA. The law does not state whether these disclosures will be made publicly available. If we fail to provide these reports, or if the reports we provide are not accurate, we could be subject to significant penalties. In addition, the federal government has been given additional enforcement authority. The federal anti-kickback statute was also amended as a part of the Affordable Care Act to provide that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute may serve as the basis for a false claim under the false claims act since claims for items or services “resulting from” a violation of the anti-kickback statute are “false” or fraudulent claims. The Affordable Care Act also permits the federal government to suspend payments to a supplier or provider pending an investigation of a "credible allegation" of fraud. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation and regulations, including regulations that will be issued to implement provisions of the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our existing or potential products may not be commercially viable if we fail to obtain or maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products by Medicaid, Medicare or other third-party payers. Our ability to increase sales and profitability will depend in part on third-party payers, such as government or government-sponsored health administrative authorities, including Medicaid and Medicare Part D, private health insurers and other such organizations, agreeing to reimburse patients for the cost of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved drug products. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Ampyra and our other marketed products, or potential products. Our business could be materially harmed if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other third-party payers were to deny reimbursement for our products or provide reimbursement only on unfavorable terms. Our business could also be harmed if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payers limit the indications for which our products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of indications than we believe is appropriate or limit the circumstances under which our products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of circumstances than we believe is appropriate. Third-party payers frequently require that drug companies negotiate agreements with them that provide discounts or rebates from list prices. We have agreed to provide such discounts and rebates to some third-party payers in relation to Ampyra. We expect increasing pressure to offer larger discounts or discounts to a greater number of third-party payers to maintain acceptable reimbursement levels and access for patients at copay levels that are reasonable and customary. There is no guarantee that we would be able to negotiate agreements with third-party payers at price levels that are profitable to us, or at all. A number of third-party payers also require prior authorization for, or even refuse to provide, reimbursement for Ampyra, and others may do so in the future. Patients who cannot meet the conditions of prior authorizations are often prevented from obtaining the prescribed medication, because they cannot afford to pay for the medication without reimbursement. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining reimbursement for our products at acceptable levels, or if reimbursement for our products by third- 54 Table of Contents party payers is subject to overly restrictive prior authorizations, our business will be harmed. In addition, if our competitors reduce the prices of their products, or otherwise demonstrate that they are better or more cost effective than our products, this may result in a greater level of reimbursement for their products relative to our products, which would reduce our sales and harm our results of operations. The Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit is provided primarily through private entities, which attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices or increase rebate payments to offset price. While the law specifically prohibits the U.S. government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress support legislation that would permit the U.S. government to use its enormous purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the law contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include limitations on prescription drug prices. The Affordable Care Act requires drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on prescriptions for branded products filled while the beneficiary is in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also known as the “donut hole.” Legislative or regulatory revisions to the Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit, as well as additional healthcare legislation that may be enacted at a future date, could reduce our sales and harm our results of operations. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our approved products, or obtain marketing approval before we obtain approval of future products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, are involved in research and/or product development for various neurological diseases, including MS and spinal cord injury, or SCI. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our products or the ones we have under development or that render our approved or proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective, safer or more convenient for patients, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products, which would harm our ability to generate revenues and recover the substantial development costs we have incurred and will continue to incur. Our products may be subject to competition from lower-priced versions of such products and competing products imported into the U.S. from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. For example, we are aware that Catalyst Pharmaceuticals is developing a 3,4 diaminopyridine product, licensed from Biomarin, that may compete with Ampyra. In certain circumstances, pharmacists are not prohibited from formulating certain drug compounds to fill prescriptions on an individual patient basis. We are aware that at present compounded dalfampridine is used by some people with MS and it is possible that some people will want to continue to use compounded formulations even though Ampyra is commercially available. Several companies are engaged in developing products that include novel immune system approaches and cell therapy approaches to remyelination for the treatment of people with MS. These programs are in early stages of development and may compete in the future with Ampyra or some of our product candidates. Also, Diazepam Nasal Spray is a proprietary nasal spray formulation of diazepam, which is currently available as an FDA approved rectal gel and in other formulations, such as used for intramuscular and intravenous administration. Our current understanding is that many patients would prefer a therapeutic delivered intranasally rather than delivery options of rectal or intramuscular administration, but we cannot be certain that physicians would prescribe Diazepam Nasal Spray in preference over the other available formulations of diazepam. Also, if 55 Table of Contents we obtain FDA approval for and launch Diazepam Nasal Spray, it may be more expensive than some or all of the generic or branded versions of diazepam otherwise available. Furthermore, we are aware that Pfizer is developing an intramuscular delivery system for diazepam, Neurelis is developing an intranasal diazepam spray, and Upsher Smith is developing a nasal delivery form of midazolam, which could have a labeled indication similar to Diazepam Nasal Spray. Diazepam Nasal Spray could be subject to substantial competition from these potential products, depending on whether and when they receive FDA approval, their cost, their labeled indications, patient acceptance, and other factors. In addition to these examples, there are numerous other companies with early stage development programs for the treatment of epilepsy, cluster or breakthrough seizures, and acute repetitive seizures that could compete with Diazepam Nasal Spray in the future. Composition of matter patents on tizanidine, the active ingredient in Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets, expired in 2002. A number of companies are marketing generic versions of tizanidine hydrochloride tablets. In addition, on February 6, 2012, Apotex Inc. launched generic tizanidine hydrochloride capsules and we launched an authorized generic version of Zanaflex Capsules under our agreement with Watson Pharma (a subsidiary of Actavis). In May 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice from Mylan Laboratories Limited advising us that Mylan Laboratories has filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application for generic versions of the three dosage strengths of Zanaflex Capsules. The FDA approved Mylan’s ANDA on November 9, 2012. Other generic companies may also seek approval for their own generic tizanidine hydrochloride capsules. Our net revenue from Zanaflex Capsules has declined significantly due to competition from existing generic versions, and we expect it will continue to decline significantly in 2013 and beyond due to competition from existing and potentially other generic versions. We may expand our business through the acquisition of companies or businesses or inlicensing product candidates that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may in the future seek to expand our products and capabilities by acquiring one or more companies or businesses or inlicensing one or more product candidates. Acquisitions and in-licenses involve numerous risks, including: · substantial cash expenditures; · potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; · incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; · difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; · diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; · entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and · potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies or businesses. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or in-license will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or in-licensed products or product candidates, for example by overestimating approvability by the FDA or the market potential of acquired or in-licensed products or product candidates. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions and in-licenses. Any acquisition might distract resources from and otherwise harm sales of Ampyra. We cannot assure you that we would be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies or in-licensed product candidates work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or company or in-licensed product candidate may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may 56 Table of Contents not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute our current shareholders’ ownership interest, or securities convertible into our stock, which could dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest upon conversion. Also, although we may from time to time announce that we have entered into agreements to acquire other companies or assets, we cannot assure you that these acquisitions will be completed in a timely manner or at all. These transactions are subject to an inherent risk that they may not be completed, for example because required closing conditions cannot be met at all or within specified time periods, termination rights may be exercised such as due to a breach by one of the parties, or other contingencies may arise that affect the transaction. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. If the use or misuse of Ampyra, Zanaflex Capsules, Zanaflex tablets or any other FDA-approved products we may sell in the future harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, third-party payers or others. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials could also expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that includes coverage for our marketed products as well as for our clinical trials. The total insurance limit is $50 million per claim, and the aggregate amount of claims under the policy is also capped at $50 million. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of our products or the testing of product candidates and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently have may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could give rise to a substantial liability that could exceed our resources. Even if claims are not successful, the costs of defending such claims and potential adverse publicity could be harmful to our business. Additionally, we have entered into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers and investigators for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. The approval of Ampyra, Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets and any other products for which we may receive marketing approval in the future are subject to post-approval regulatory requirements, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with these requirements and our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we currently have or may obtain marketing approval, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data that we might be required to collect and the advertising and promotional activities for the product, are subject to continual recordkeeping and reporting requirements, review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Regulatory approval of a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other restrictive conditions of approval that limit our ability to promote, sell or distribute a product. Furthermore, any approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. For example, we are required to inform the FDA if certain issues arise in the manufacturing or packaging of our commercialized products. We have an outstanding FDA commitment, inherited from Alkermes (formerly Elan), to provide an assessment of the safety and effectiveness of Zanaflex Capsules in pediatric patients. This commitment, which is included in the NDA approval for Zanaflex Capsules, was to be satisfied by February 2007. We provided retrospective pediatric safety data to the FDA in April 2007. However, we were not able to complete the pediatric pharmacokinetic study by the February 2007 deadline due to delays in investigator recruitment and obtaining Institutional Review Board approvals. The study was completed and the final report submitted to the FDA in April 2008. The FDA reviewed our report against new standards set out in the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) and reauthorized by both the 2007 FDA Amendments Act (FDAAA) and the 2012 Food and Drug 57 Table of Contents Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) and concluded that the report did not satisfy the commitment. The FDA has informed us that a series of studies designed to further characterize the pharmacokinetics and demonstrate the efficacy and long-term safety of Zanaflex Capsules in children are required to fulfill the pediatric commitment for Zanaflex Capsules. In June 2011, the FDA informally advised us that they would be amending the pediatric commitment for Zanaflex Capsules to require a non-clinical juvenile toxicology study, as well as formalize the timeline for the required pediatric studies. In December 2012, the FDA issued a formal written request that confirmed the information in its informal June 2011 request, and set forth specific deadlines for the required pediatric nonclinical and clinical studies. In January 2013, we submitted a written request to extend the deadlines for these studies, and we are awaiting a response from the FDA. Additionally, a clinical electrocardiogram study in adult humans to investigate potential QT prolongation (heart rhythm measure) has also been requested. These studies could be more extensive and more costly than our prior studies and could result in new data that are not consistent with the current safety and efficacy profile of the drug, which might require us to change our product labeling and could harm product sales. We also may be subject to penalties for not meeting our pediatric study commitments, including a court-imposed injunction to conduct studies. Our advertising and promotion are subject to stringent FDA rules and oversight. In particular, the claims in our promotional materials and activities must be consistent with the FDA approvals for our products, and must be appropriately substantiated and fairly balanced with information on the safety risks and limitations of the products. Any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations. We must continually review adverse event information that we receive concerning our drugs and make expedited and periodic adverse event reports to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We may be slow to adapt, or we may not be able to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new legal or regulatory requirements or policies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; · withdrawal of product approvals; · product seizures; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; · restrictions on importation of our product candidates; · fines and injunctions; · civil and criminal penalties; · exclusion from participation in government programs; and · suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications. State pharmaceutical compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. Many states have enacted laws governing the licensure of companies that distribute prescription drugs, although the scope of these laws varies, particularly where out-of-state distributors are concerned. In the past, we obtained licenses in all of the jurisdictions in which we believed we were required to be licensed. We were 58 Table of Contents advised, however, that we needed to file license applications in certain additional jurisdictions and that some of our existing licenses needed to be amended. We filed amendments to certain licenses and obtained additional licenses. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of these states will not take action under these licensure laws. Several states have also enacted legislation regarding promotional and other activities conducted by pharmaceutical companies. These laws require companies to establish marketing compliance programs; disclose various sales marketing expenses and pricing information; refrain from providing certain gifts or other payments to healthcare providers; ensure that their sales representatives in that state are licensed; and/or restrict their use of prescriber data with respect to marketing activities in that state. For example, California has enacted a statute requiring pharmaceutical companies to adopt a comprehensive compliance program that is in accordance with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. Similarly, some states, including California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Vermont and West Virginia, and the District of Columbia have passed laws of varying scope that ban or limit the provision of gifts, meals and certain other payments to healthcare providers and/or impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing, payments and/or costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and other promotional activities. Other states also have laws that regulate, directly or indirectly, various pharmaceutical sales and marketing activities, and new legislation is being considered in many states. Many of the state requirements continue to evolve, and the manner in which they will be enforced going forward is uncertain. In some cases, the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are continually updating our compliance infrastructure and standard operating procedures to comply with such laws, but we cannot eliminate the risk created by these uncertainties. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties, including government orders to stop selling drugs into a state until properly licensed, and could receive adverse publicity. Our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms or at all. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $333.2 million in cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments. We have several product candidates in various stages of development, and all will require significant further investment to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval prior to commercialization. We may need to seek additional equity or debt financing or strategic collaborations to complete our product development activities, and could require substantial funding to commercialize any products that we successfully develop. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. To the extent that we are able to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of those securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. Holders of such new equity securities may also have rights, preference or privileges that are senior to yours. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, we may become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. To the extent funding is raised through collaborations or intellectual property-based financings, we may be required to give up some or all of the rights and related intellectual property to one or more of our products, product candidates or preclinical programs. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms when and if needed, we may be required to reduce, defer or discontinue one or more of our product development programs or devote fewer resources to marketing Ampyra or our other commercial products. Under our financing arrangement with the Paul Royalty Fund, or PRF, upon the occurrence of certain events, PRF may require us to repurchase the right to receive revenues that we assigned to it or may foreclose on the Zanaflex assets that secure our obligations to PRF. On December 23, 2005, we entered into a revenue interest assignment agreement with PRF, which was 59 Table of Contents amended on November 28, 2006, pursuant to which we assigned to PRF the right to receive a portion of our net revenues from Zanaflex Capsules, Zanaflex tablets and any future Zanaflex products. To secure our obligations to PRF, we also granted PRF a security interest in substantially all of our assets related to Zanaflex. Under our arrangement with PRF, upon the occurrence of certain events, including if we experience a change of control, undergo certain bankruptcy events, transfer any of our interests in Zanaflex (other than pursuant to a license agreement, development, commercialization, co-promotion, collaboration, partnering or similar agreement), transfer all or substantially all of our assets, or breach certain of the covenants, representations or warranties under the revenue interest assignment agreement, PRF may (i) require us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it at the "put/call price" in effect on the date such right is exercised or (ii) foreclose on the Zanaflex assets that secure our obligations to PRF. Except in the case of certain bankruptcy events, if PRF exercises its right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it, PRF may not foreclose unless we fail to pay the put/call price as required. The put/call price on a given date is the greater of (i) 150% of all payments made by PRF to us as of such date, less all payments received by PRF from us as of such date, or (ii) an amount that would generate an internal rate of return to PRF of 25% on all payments made by PRF to us as of such date, taking into account the amount and timing of all payments received by PRF from us as of such date. If PRF were to validly exercise its right to cause us to repurchase the right we assigned to it, we may have to use funds that we planned to use for other purposes. Because PRF's right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it is triggered by, among other things, a change in control, transfer of any of our interests in Zanaflex (other than pursuant to a license agreement, development, commercialization, co-promotion, collaboration, partnering or similar agreement) or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets, the existence of that right could discourage us or a potential acquirer from entering into a business transaction that would result in the occurrence of any of those events. On August 3, 2012, we received a letter from PRF alleging that we breached specified covenants and representations in the PRF agreement and purporting to exercise the put option. The letter also includes an allegation that PRF has suffered injuries beyond what is covered by their purported exercise of the put option, although it does not specify or quantify those injuries. We believe that the allegations are without merit and that the put option has not been validly exercised. We cannot predict whether these allegations will lead to any legal actions or, if they are initiated, the outcome or impact on us of any such legal actions. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. Our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with our scientific and medical network and the network of centers in the U.S. and Canada that conducts our clinical trials. We are highly dependent on the services of Dr. Ron Cohen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as the other principal members of our management and scientific staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. With the exception of Dr. Ron Cohen, we do not maintain "key man" life insurance policies on the lives of our officers, directors or employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials and chemicals that are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing their use, storage, handling and disposal. These materials include ketamine, buprenophine, sodium pentobarbital, ether, acetonitrile, hexanes, chloroform, xylene, dehydrated alcohol, methanol, ethyl alcohol, isopropanol and formaldehyde. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations, 60 Table of Contents we could be subject to criminal sanctions and/or substantial liability for any damages that result, and any substantial liability could exceed our resources. We currently maintain a general liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per claim limit and also caps aggregate claims at $2 million. In addition, we have an umbrella insurance policy that covers up to $30 million of liability in excess of the general liability policy's $2 million limit. This amount of insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. In addition, the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations may be substantial. Risks related to our intellectual property If we cannot protect, maintain and, if necessary, enforce our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our and our licensors' ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patent and trademark protection for the technologies, compounds and products, if any, resulting from our licenses and research and development programs. Without protection for the intellectual property we use or intend to use, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, research, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished. There are seven major families of subject matter in our patent portfolio, including Ampyra, Zanaflex Capsules, neuregulins, remyelinating antibodies, chondroitinase, AC105, and Diazepam Nasal Spray, comprised of both our own and in-licensed patents and patent applications. Our intellectual property also includes copyrights, confidential and trade secret information and a portfolio of trademarks. The process of obtaining patents and trademarks can be time consuming and expensive with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent or trademark may not issue, it may not issue in a timely manner, or it may not have sufficient scope or strength to protect the technology it was intended to protect or to provide us with any commercial advantage. We may never be certain that we were the first to develop the technology or that we were the first to file a patent application for the particular technology because patent applications are confidential until they are published, and publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights will remain uncertain if our pending patent applications are not allowed or issued for any reason or if we are unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our issued patents or trademarks or the patents or trademarks of our licensors. We may initiate actions to protect our intellectual property and in any litigation in which our intellectual property or our licensors' intellectual property is asserted, a court may determine that the intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of that intellectual property is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by, for example, the patent claims. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries for a variety of legal and public policy reasons. From time to time we may receive notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors' patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, would be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial 61 Table of Contents costs and be a distraction to management and which could have an adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and others. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, collaborators, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, joint ownership may result, which could undermine the value of the intellectual property to us or disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Policing unauthorized use of our or our licensors' intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If third parties successfully claim that we infringe their patents or proprietary rights, our ability to continue to develop and successfully commercialize our product candidates could be delayed or prevented. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others relating to any of our marketed products or product candidates, we may be required to: · pay substantial damages; · stop using our technologies; · withdraw a product from the market; · stop certain research and development efforts; · significantly delay product commercialization activities; · develop non-infringing products or methods, which may not be feasible; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties. In addition, from time to time, we may become aware of third parties who have, or claim to have, intellectual property rights covering matters such as methods for doing business, conducting research, diagnosing diseases or prescribing medications that are alleged to be broadly applicable across sectors of the industry, and we may receive assertions that these rights apply to us. The existence of such intellectual property rights could present a risk to our business. A license required under any patents or proprietary rights held by a third party may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates and advancing our preclinical or clinical programs. In addition, any such litigation would be costly, time consuming, and might distract management from other important tasks. 62 Table of Contents We are dependent on our license agreements and if we fail to meet our obligations under these license agreements, or our agreements are terminated for any reason, we may lose our rights to our in-licensed patents and technologies. We are dependent on licenses for intellectual property related to Ampyra, Zanaflex and all of our research and development programs. Our failure to meet any of our obligations under these license agreements could result in the loss of our rights to this intellectual property. If we lose our rights under any of these license agreements, we may be unable to commercialize a product that uses licensed intellectual property. We could lose our rights to dalfampridine under our license agreement with Alkermes in countries in which we have a license, if we fail to file regulatory approvals within a commercially reasonable time after completion and receipt of positive data from all preclinical and clinical studies required for the NDA-equivalent. We could also lose our rights under our license agreement with Alkermes in markets outside the U.S. if we fail to launch a product within 180 days of NDA-equivalent approvals and receipt of other needed regulatory approvals in those countries. Alkermes could also terminate our license agreement if we fail to make payments due under the license agreement. If we lose our rights to dalfampridine, our prospects for generating revenue and recovering our substantial investment in the development of this product would be materially harmed. Risks relating to our common stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2006, you could not buy or sell our common stock publicly. While our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, an active public market for our common stock may not be sustained. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the current market price if trading in our stock is not active. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: · achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by us or our collaborators or by our competitors; · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results or updates relating to products under development by us, our collaborators, or our competitors; · announcements of new corporate partnerships, alliances, financings or other transactions, or of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our collaborations; · economic or other crises or other external factors; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; · litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our collaborators or competitors; · governmental regulation and legislation in the U.S. and foreign countries; · changes in securities analysts' estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts' expectations; · sales of substantial amounts of our stock; 63 Table of Contents · delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical trials or unsatisfactory design or result of these trials; · variations in product revenue and profitability; · variations in our anticipated or actual operating results; and · changes in healthcare reimbursement policies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market by our executive officers, directors, 5% or greater stockholders or other stockholders, or the prospect of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2013, we had outstanding 40,280,070 shares of voting common stock. Also, options to acquire 5,703,039 shares of common stock were outstanding as of February 15, 2013, exercisable at an average exercise price of $22.36 per share, and additional shares of common stock are authorized for issuance pursuant to options and other awards under our 2006 Employee Incentive Plan. To the extent that option holders exercise outstanding options, there may be further dilution and the sales of shares issued upon such exercises could cause our stock price to drop further. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control the outcome of stockholder vote. As of December 31, 2012, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 41% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval or mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempt by our stockholders to replace our current directors or officers. These provisions include: · Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the 64 Table of Contents board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. · Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges determined by the board of directors. The ability to authorize and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences on a discriminatory basis that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. · Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each with staggered three-year terms. As a result, only one class of directors will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, and each of the two other classes of directors will continue to serve for the remainder of their respective three-year terms, limiting the ability of stockholders to reconstitute the board of directors. · The vote of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is required in order to take certain actions, including amendment of our bylaws, removal of directors for cause and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holders has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could have the effect of reducing your ability to receive a premium on your common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 