Item 1A. Risk Factors See also, PART I, ITEM 1, BUSINESS. The following is a list of risk factors that affect the Company. They are not listed in any particular order or relative importance and no inferences should be given to the listing order. The variability of quarterly operating results can be significant. The Company’s future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company. These factors include the relatively large size of customer agreements, unpredictability in the number and timing of system sales, length of the sales cycle, delays in installations and changes in customer’s financial condition or budgets. The Company needs to manage its growth. The Company is currently experiencing a period of growth and expansion which has placed, and could continue to place, a significant strain on the Company’s services and support operations, sales and administrative personnel and other resources. Streamline Health believes that it must expand the workforce to develop new products enhance existing products and serve the needs of its existing and anticipated customer base. The Company’s ability to successfully expand its operations will depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. The Company’s ability to manage its planned growth effectively also will require the Company to continue to improve its operational, management, and financial systems and controls, to train, motivate, and manage its employees and to increase its operating expenses in anticipation that such growth will increase future revenues. The Company could be less profitable than expected. Because of the relatively fixed operating expenses and overhead, the future profitability of the Company is dependent on increasing revenues which may not materialize as anticipated. Sales have been concentrated in a small number of customers. The Company’s revenues have been concentrated in a relatively small number of large customers, and the Company has historically derived a substantial percentage of its total revenues from a few customers. There can be no assurance that a customer will not cancel all or any portion of a master agreement or delay installations. A termination or installation delay of one or more phases of an agreement, or the failure of Streamline Health to procure additional agreements, could have a material adverse effect on Streamline Health’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s major reseller could choose to discontinue reselling Streamline Health products, and significant customers could elect to discontinue using our products. The Company needs to ensure that it expands the distribution channels to reduce the reliance on a single major reseller and expand the customer base to ensure that the loss of a customer is not a significant loss in total revenues. 16 Table of Contents Streamline Health faces significant competition, including from companies with significantly greater resources. The Company currently competes with many other companies for the licensing of similar software products and related services. Many of these companies are larger than Streamline Health and have significantly more resources to invest in their business. Streamline Health’s intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of Streamline Health’s products and services. The Company trademarks and copyrights its intellectual property, which represents an important asset to the Company. Streamline Health does not have any patent protection on any of its software. The Company relies upon license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc. to maintain the confidentiality of Streamline Health’s proprietary information and trade secrets. If the Company fails to adequately protect the intellectual property through trademarks and copyrights, license agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreements, etc., the intellectual property rights may be misappropriated by others, invalidated, or challenged, and our competitors could duplicate the Company’s technology or may otherwise limit any competitive technology advantage the Company may have. Also, the Company could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of software patents and copyrighted and trademarked materials are produced as our software functionality is expanded. Any claim, even if not meritorious, would be expensive to defend, and if the Company were to become liable for infringing third party intellectual property rights, the Company could be liable for substantial damage awards, and potentially be required to cease using the technology, produce noninfringing technology or obtain a license to use such technology. Due to the rapid pace of technology change, the Company believes its future success is likely to depend upon continued innovation, technical expertise, marketing skills and customer support and services rather than on legal protection of our property rights. However, the Company has in the past, and intends in the future, to aggressively assert its intellectual property rights when necessary. Rapid technology changes and short product life cycles could harm Streamline Health’s business. The technology underlying Streamline Health’s product is subject to rapid change including the potential introduction of new products and technologies, which may have a material, adverse impact on its business, operating results, and financial condition. The Company needs to maintain an ongoing research and development program to continue to develop new products and apply new technologies to the existing products. The impact of new or changes in existing federal, state, and local regulations governing healthcare information. Healthcare regulations issued to date have not had a material adverse affect on business. However, the Company cannot predict the potential impact of new or revised regulations that have not yet been released or made final, or any other regulations that might be adopted. Congress may adopt legislation that may change, override, conflict with, or preempt the currently issued regulations. Additionally, legislation governing the dissemination of patient health information is also from time-to-time proposed and debated at the state level. These laws or regulations, when adopted, could restrict the ability of customers to obtain, use, or disseminate patient health information. Streamline Health believes that the features and architecture of Streamline Health’s products are such that it currently supports or should be able to make the necessary modifications to its products, if required, to ensure support of the HIPAA regulations, and other legislation or regulations. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect Streamline Health’s business. Streamline Health’s success depends, to a significant degree, on its management, sales force and technical personnel. The Company must recruit, motivate, and retain highly skilled managers, consulting and technical personnel, including application programmers, database specialists, consultants, and system architects who have the requisite expertise in the technical environments in which our products operate. Competition for such technical expertise is intense. 17 Table of Contents Streamline Health software may not be error free and could result in claims of breach of contract and liabilities. Streamline Health software products are very complex and may not be error free, especially when first released. Although the Company performs extensive testing, failure of any product to operate in accordance with its specifications and documentation could constitute a breach of the license agreement and require Streamline Health to correct the deficiency. If such deficiency is not corrected within the agreed upon contractual limitations on liability and cannot be corrected in a timely manner, it could constitute a material breach of a contract allowing the termination thereof and possibly subjecting the Company to liability. Streamline Health’s license agreement generally limits the Company’s liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions or under some circumstances. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The application-hosting services and support services could experience interruptions. The Company provides hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, it provides support services to clients through the client support facility. The Company has redundancies, such as backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, built into its operations to prevent disruptions. However, complete failure of all generators or impairment of all telecommunications lines or severe casualty damage to the building or equipment inside the buildings housing our data center or client support facilities could cause a disruption in operations and adversely affect clients who depend on the application hosting services. Any interruption in operations at its data center or client support facility could cause the Company to lose existing clients, impede our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, cause potential liability to our clients, and increase our operating costs. Third party products are essential to Streamline Health’s software. Streamline Health software incorporates software licensed from various vendors into its proprietary software. In addition, third-party, stand-alone software is required to operate the Company’s proprietary software. The loss of the ability to use these third party products, or ability to obtain substitute third party software at comparable prices, could have a material adverse affect on the ability to license Streamline Health software. The Company could be liable to customers or third parties. The Company’s systems provide access to patient information used by physicians and other medical personnel in providing medical care. The medical care provided by physicians and other medical personnel are subject to numerous medical malpractice and other claims. The Company attempts to limit any potential liability of the Company to customers by limiting the warranties on its systems in the Company’s agreements with healthcare provider. However, such agreements do not protect the Company from third party claims by patients who may seek damages from any or all persons or entities connected to the process of delivering patient care. The Company maintains insurance, which provide limited protection from such claims, if they are successfully litigated. Although no such claims have been brought against the Company to date regarding injuries related to the use of our software solutions, such claims may be made in the future. A significant uninsured or under-insured judgment against the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company needs to continuously anticipate future events, such as changes in regulations that could affect its products, and the probability of natural disasters, catastrophes, war, or terrorism etc. The Company may not correctly anticipate such future events which could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company, its financial condition and/or operating results. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 