ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. See “Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Forward-Looking Statements.” 29 Table of Contents Competition from other manufacturers of generic drugs affecting our generic products The success of our generic business is based in part on successfully developing and bringing to market a steady flow of generic products. We attempt to select our generic products based on the prospects for limited competition from competing generic companies. We do so because we believe that the more generic competitors that market the same generic product, the lower the revenue and profitability we will record for our product. Therefore, if any of our currently marketed products or any newly launched generic product are subject to additional generic competition from one or more competing products, our price and market share for the affected generic product could be dramatically reduced. As a consequence, unless we successfully replace generic products that are declining in profitability with new generic products with higher profitability, our business could be adversely affected. Our largest single category of generic products is oral contraceptives, which accounted for approximately $400 million in revenues in fiscal 2006. In addition, we recorded revenues of $90 million or more from each of two other generic products, Desmopressin, and royalties from the sale of a generic version of Allegra by Teva Pharmaceuticals. Two generic manufacturers have already launched a competing generic version of Desmopressin, and there are two competing generic Allegra products in addition to Teva’s. We anticipate added competition to Desmopressin and Allegra over time. In addition, we anticipate increasing competition to our generic oral contraceptives over time. Unless we can replace the anticipated losses of revenues from these products with revenues from new products, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Competition from other manufacturers of generic drugs affecting our proprietary products Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity periods for one of our branded products, or upon the “at-risk” launch by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our branded products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. For example, SEASONALE, our largest selling proprietary product, generated $100 million in revenues during fiscal 2006. In May 2006 a competitor received tentative FDA approval for a generic version of SEASONALE and may be eligible for final approval following the expiration of our regulatory exclusivity on September 5, 2006. If the competitor launches its product, our revenues and gross profit contributions from SEASONALE will decline significantly. Resolving Paragraph IV patent challenges Our operating results have historically included significant contributions from products that arise from the success we have had from our patent challenge activities. However, the success we have had in the past from 30 Table of Contents challenging branded companies’ patents, whether through court decisions that permit us to launch our generic versions of product or through settlements, may not be repeated in the future due to the following: • an increase in the number of competitors who pursue patent challenges could make it more difficult for us to be first to file a Paragraph IV certification on a patent protected product; • a branded company’s decision to launch an “authorized” generic version of the product will reduce our market share and lower the revenues and gross profits we could have otherwise earned if an “authorized” generic were not launched; • claims brought by third parties, including the FTC, various states’ Attorneys General and other third-party payers challenging the legality of our settlement agreements could affect the way in which we resolve our patent challenges with the brand pharmaceutical companies; and • the efforts of brand companies to use legislative and regulatory tactics to delay the launch of generic products. Impact of “At Risk” launches There are situations where we have used our business and legal judgment and decided to market and sell products, subject to claims of alleged patent infringement, prior to final resolution by the courts, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable, or would not be infringed. This is referred to in the pharmaceutical industry as an “at risk” launch. The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to such holder include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. Should we elect to proceed in this manner we could face substantial damages if the final court decision is adverse to us. In the case where a patent holder was able to prove that our infringement was “willful”, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be trebled. Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends The trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, reimbursements to patients may not be maintained and third-party payers, which place limits on levels of reimbursement, may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products and could significantly harm our business. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to reimbursement programs that could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Development and Regulatory Approval Risks and uncertainties particularly apply to whether or when our products will be approved. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of developing new products is inherently uncertain. For our generic business, much of our product development efforts are focused on developing products that are difficult to formulate and/or products that require specialized manufacturing technology. The inability to successfully formulate and pass bioequivalence studies can adversely affect the timing of when we receive approval for our generic products. For our proprietary business, regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials or claims and concerns about safety and efficacy are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the timing of new 31 Table of Contents proprietary product launches. In addition decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products. Product Manufacturing and Marketing Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of approved products, including our recent launches of SEASONIQUE and ENJUVIA, could affect future results. Dependence on third parties We rely on third parties to supply us with raw materials, inactive ingredients and other components for our manufactured products and for certain of our finished goods. In many instances there is only a single supplier. In addition, we rely on third-party distributors and alliance partners to provide services for our business, including product development, manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services for certain of our products. Nearly all third-party suppliers and contractors are subject to FDA, and in some cases DEA, requirements. Our business on some products are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties, and on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third-party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements or obligations with us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our revenues include amounts we earn based on sales generated and recorded by Teva Pharmaceuticals for generic Allegra, and Kos Pharmaceuticals for Niaspan and Advicor. Any factors that negatively impact the sales of these products could adversely impact our revenues and profits. Customer consolidation Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to attempt to extract price discounts on our products. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could create volatility in our results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, the potentially significant charges to our operating results for items like in-process research and development charges and transaction costs. Legal Proceedings As described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer and commercial litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. 32 Table of Contents Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and unfavorable rulings do occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages or, in some rare cases, for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting Barr from manufacturing or selling one or more products. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. Availability of product liability insurance Our business inherently exposes us to claims relating to the use of our products. We sell, and will continue to sell, pharmaceutical products for which product liability insurance coverage may not be available, and, accordingly, if we are sued and if adverse judgments are rendered, we may be subject to claims that are not covered by insurance as well as claims that exceed our policy limits each of which could adversely impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Additional products for which we currently have coverage may be excluded in the future. In addition, product liability coverage for pharmaceutical companies is becoming more expensive and increasingly difficult to obtain. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the type and amount of coverage we desire. Acquisitions We regularly review potential acquisitions of products and companies complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks including, difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products. Managing rapidly growing operations We have grown significantly over the past several years, extending our processes, systems and people. We have made significant investments in enterprise resource systems and our internal control processes to help manage this growth. We must also attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales and marketing and support positions to support our growth. As a result, hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, technical staff, manufacturing personnel, qualified quality and regulatory professionals and sales representatives are critical to our business and competition for these people can be intense. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees and if we do not continue to invest in systems and processes to manage our growth, our operations could be adversely impacted. Use of estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying accounting policies have a significant impact of our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change them. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries. Terrorist Activity Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas. 33 Table of Contents Potential acquisition of PLIVA d.d. On August 10, 2006, we initiated a tender offer to purchase 100% of the shares of PLIVA, a $1.2 billion generic pharmaceutical company headquartered in Zagreb, Croatia. Our tender offer was for approximately $2.3 billion plus the assumption of approximately $240 million in existing debt of PLIVA. If we are successful in the tender process, we will immediately begin the integration of the two companies. There are a number of operational and financial risks associated with this potential acquisition. The operational risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • the necessity of coordinating and consolidating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • the successful integration of our management and personnel with that of PLIVA and retaining key employees; • changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products. The financial risks related to this potential acquisition include, but are not limited to, the following: • our ability to satisfy debt obligations under the $2.8 billion Senior Credit Facility we entered into to help finance this transaction; • the ability of the combined company to meet certain revenue and cost synergy objectives; • charges associated with this transaction, including the write-off of acquired in-process research and development costs, additional depreciation and amortization of acquired assets and interest expense and other financing costs related to the Senior Credit Facility will negatively impact our net income; • our international-based revenues and expenses will be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. If management is unable to successfully integrate the operations and manage the financial risks, the anticipated benefits of this potential acquisition may not be realized. On August 9, 2006 a competing offer to acquire PLIVA was announced. As a result, we may be required to increase our bid. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring PLIVA, we will incur a significant charge to operations reflecting costs we have incurred to date that have been capitalized. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 34 Table of Contents 