Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially impact our business and which could cause our actual business, financial condition or future results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially impacted by economic conditions and related fluctuations in client demand for marketing, business, technology and other consulting services. The market for our consulting services and the technologies used in our solutions historically has tended to fluctuate with economic cycles — particularly those cycles in the United States and Europe, where we earn the majority of our revenues. During economic cycles in which many companies are experiencing financial difficulties or uncertainty, clients and potential clients may cancel or delay spending on marketing, technology and other business initiatives. Our efforts to down-size, when necessary, in a manner intended to mirror downturned economic conditions could be delayed and costly and could also result in us having inadequate 12 Table of Contents people resources as economic conditions improve. A downturn could result in reduced demand for our services, assignment cancellations or delays, lower revenues and operating margins resulting from price reduction pressures for our services, and payment and collection issues with our clients. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our markets are highly competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. The markets for the services we provide are highly competitive. In our SapientNitro and Sapient Global Markets business units, we compete principally with large systems consulting and implementation firms, traditional and digital advertising and marketing agencies, offshore consulting and outsourcing companies, and clients’ internal information systems departments. To a lesser extent, other competitors include boutique consulting firms that maintain specialized skills and/or are geographically focused. Regarding our Sapient Government Services business unit, we both compete and partner with large systems integrators, major consulting firms with dedicated government business units, and government contractors. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition, than we do. Often, these competitors offer a larger and more diversified suite of products and services than we offer. If we cannot keep pace with the intense competition in our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Our international operations and Global Distributed Delivery (“GDD”) model subject us to increased risk. We have offices throughout the world. Our international operations account for a significant percentage of our total revenues, and our GDD model is a key component of our ability to deliver our services successfully. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • economic recessions in foreign countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates or impositions of restrictive currency controls; • political instability, war or military conflict; • changes in regulatory requirements; • complexities and costs in effectively managing multi-national operations and associated internal controls and procedures; • significant changes in immigration policies or difficulties in obtaining required immigration approvals for international assignments; • restrictions imposed on the import and export of technologies in countries where we operate; • tightened credit markets in particular geographies; • limitations on our ability to repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries; • reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and • changes in tax laws. In particular, our GDD model depends heavily on our offices in Gurgaon, Bangalore and Noida, India. Any escalation in the political or military instability in India or Pakistan or the surrounding countries, or a business interruption resulting from a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could hinder our ability to use GDD successfully and could result in material adverse effects to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the delivery of our services from remote locations causes us to rely on data, phone, power and other networks which are not as reliable in India as those in other countries where we operate. Any failures of these systems, or any failure of our systems generally, could affect the success of our GDD model. Remote delivery of our services also increases the complexity and risk of delivering our services, which could affect our ability to satisfy our clients’ expectations or perform our services within the estimated time frame and budget for each assignment. 13 Table of Contents In addition, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010, to which we are subject. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners and other third parties with which we may associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated in or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. Also, changes to government structure or policies in countries in which we operate could negatively impact our operations if such changes were to limit or cease any benefits that may currently be available to us. For example, although the Indian government has historically offered generous tax incentives to induce foreign companies to base operations in India, changes in tax laws have been introduced in recent years and may be introduced in the future that may partially offset those benefits. On March 31, 2009, the income tax incentive of one of our Software Technology Parks (“STPs”) units in India expired. On March 31, 2011, the income tax incentives applicable to our other two STPs units in India expired. In 2009 we established a new India unit in a Special Economic Zone (“SEZ”), which is eligible for a five year, 100% tax holiday. Immediately following the expiration of the 100% tax holiday, the SEZ unit is entitled to a five-year, 50% tax holiday. In 2011, we established three new India business units in SEZs, which are eligible for similar tax benefits. The expiration of incentives may adversely affect our cost of operations and increase the risk of delivering our services on budget for client assignments. Expiration of tax benefits provided to us by having operations based in India could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it has become increasingly difficult to obtain necessary visas for certain international personnel, particularly technical personnel, working in our domestic offices, and to receive necessary immigration approvals for our domestic employees working abroad on international assignments. If these challenges continue or increase, it may limit our ability to engage the most desirable personnel for particular assignments, increase the time necessary to receive approvals to do so or prevent us from obtaining such approvals, and increase our costs, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially impacted by military actions, global terrorism, natural disasters and political unrest. Military actions in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, global terrorism, natural disasters and political unrest in the Middle East and other countries are among the factors that may adversely impact regional and global economic conditions and, concomitantly, client investments in our services. In addition to the potential impact of any of these events on the business of our clients, these events could pose a threat to our global operations and people. Specifically, our people and operations in India could be impacted if continued civil unrest, terrorism and conflicts with bordering countries in India were to increase significantly. Additionally, hurricanes or other unanticipated catastrophes, both in the U.S. and globally, could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business as well as disrupt our clients’ businesses, which may result in a further adverse impact on our business. As a result, significant disruptions caused by such events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not attract and retain qualified professional staff, we may be unable to perform adequately our client engagements and could be limited in accepting new client engagements. Our business is labor intensive, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees. The improvement in demand for marketing and business and technology consulting services has further increased the need for employees with specialized skills or significant experience 14 Table of Contents in marketing, business and technology consulting, particularly at senior levels. We have been expanding our operations, and these expansion efforts will be highly dependent on attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled people. We may not be successful in attracting enough employees to achieve our expansion or staffing plans. Furthermore, the industry turnover rates for these types of employees are high, and we may not be successful in retaining, training and motivating the employees we attract. Any inability to attract, retain, train and motivate employees could impair our ability to manage adequately and complete existing assignments and to bid for or accept new client engagements. Such inability may also force us to increase our hiring of expensive independent contractors, which may increase our costs and reduce our profitability on client engagements. We must also devote substantial managerial and financial resources to monitoring and managing our workforce and other resources. Our future success will depend on our ability to manage the levels and related costs of our workforce and other resources effectively. We earn revenues, incur costs and maintain cash balances in multiple currencies, and currency fluctuations affect our financial results. We have significant international operations, and we frequently earn our revenues and incur our costs in various foreign currencies. Our international service revenues were $430.4 million for 2012. Doing business in these foreign currencies exposes us to foreign currency risks in numerous areas, including revenues and receivables, purchases, payroll and investments on both a transactional level and a financial statement translation basis. As of December 31, 2012, 50% of our assets and 45% of our liabilities were subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. We also have a significant amount of foreign currency operating income and net asset exposures. Certain foreign currency exposures, to some extent, are naturally offset within a foreign country, because revenues and costs are denominated in the same foreign currency, and certain cash balances are held in U.S. dollar denominated accounts. However, due to the increasing size and importance of our international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact our financial results. Our GDD model also subjects us to increased currency risk because we incur a portion of our assignment costs in Indian rupees and earn revenue from our clients in other currencies. We will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies. There is no guarantee that any currency hedging activity we may undertake will be effective or that our financial condition will not be negatively impacted because our hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts, risks related to currency exchange rate fluctuations of the Indian rupee or other currencies versus the U.S. dollar, and risks related to the regulatory environment under which we conduct our hedging activities. Costs for our delivery of services, including labor, could increase as a result of the decrease in value of the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee or other currencies, affecting our reported results. Our cash positions include amounts denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds from our subsidiaries and the cost effectiveness with which these funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries outside the United States could have adverse tax consequences and be limited by foreign currency exchange controls. Any fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or changes in local tax laws, could materially impact the availability and size of these funds for repatriation or transfer. We have significant fixed operating costs, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly salary expense, rent, depreciation expense and amortization of purchased intangible assets, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for, our assignments may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. 15 Table of Contents An unanticipated termination or decrease in size or scope of a major assignment, a client’s decision not to proceed with an assignment we anticipated or the completion during a quarter of several major client assignments could require us to maintain underutilized employees and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues and earnings may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter because of such factors as: • the contractual terms and timing of completion of assignments, including achievement of certain business results; • any delays incurred in connection with assignments; • the adequacy of provisions for losses and bad debts; • the accuracy of our estimates of resources required to complete ongoing assignments; • loss of key highly-skilled personnel necessary to complete assignments; and • general economic conditions. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our effective tax rate could be adversely impacted by several factors, some of which are outside our control, including: • changes in relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those tax laws; • changes to our assessments about the realizability of our deferred tax assets which are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies and the economic environment in which we do business; • the outcome of future tax audits and examinations; and • changes in generally accepted accounting principles that affect the accounting for taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, many transactions occur for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. The final determination could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions related to the allocation of income among our subsidiaries. We enter into intercompany transactions with affiliated companies located in various tax jurisdictions around the world. While our transfer pricing methodologies are based on economic studies that we believe are reasonable, transfer prices for these transactions could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liabilities, interest, and/or penalties, and the possibility of double taxation. If any of these tax authorities are successful in challenging our tax positions, our income tax expense may be adversely affected. We may not be able to recognize revenue in the period in which our services are performed, which may contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and margins. We provide our services under time-and-materials, fixed-price, and retainer contracts. All revenue is recognized pursuant to generally accepted accounting standards. These standards require us to recognize revenue once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. If we perform our services prior to the period in which we are able to recognize the associated revenue, our revenue and margins may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. 16 Table of Contents Our profits may decrease and/or we may incur significant unanticipated costs if we do not accurately estimate the costs of fixed-price engagements. A portion of our service revenues is derived from fixed-price contracts, rather than contracts in which payment to us is determined on a time-and-materials basis. Our failure to estimate accurately the resources and schedule required for an assignment, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the assignment plan upon which our fixed-price contract was based, could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are consistently entering into contracts for large assignments that magnify this risk. We have been required to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete assignments in the past, which has occasionally resulted in losses on those contracts. We will likely experience similar situations in the future. In addition, we may fix the price for some assignments at an early stage of the assignment engagement, which could result in a fixed price that is too low. Therefore, any changes from our original estimates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability will be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain our pricing and utilization rates as well as control our costs. Our profitability derives from and is impacted by three primary factors: (i) the prices for our services; (ii) our professionals’ utilization or billable time; and (iii) our costs. To achieve our desired level of profitability, our utilization must remain at an appropriate rate, and we must contain our costs. Should we reduce our prices in the future as a result of pricing pressures, or should we be unable to achieve our target utilization rates and costs, our profitability could be adversely impacted. We are dependent on, and may be adversely impacted by, the performance of third parties on certain complex engagements. Certain complex engagements may require that we partner with specialized software or systems vendors or other partners to perform services. Often in these circumstances, we are liable to our clients for the performance of these third parties. Should the third parties fail to perform timely or satisfactorily, our clients may elect to terminate the engagements or withhold payment until the services have been completed successfully. Additionally, the timing of our revenue recognition may be affected or we may realize lower profits if we incur additional costs due to delays or because we must assign additional personnel to complete the engagement. Furthermore, our relationships with our clients and our reputation generally may suffer harm as a result of our partners’ unsatisfactory performance. Our clients could unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services. Most of our contracts can be canceled by the client with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. A client’s termination of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues and additional expenses for staff that were allocated to that client’s assignment. We could be required to maintain underutilized employees who were assigned to the terminated contract. The unexpected cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of any of our large assignments, or client termination of one or more recurring revenue contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to our clients for substantial damages caused by our unauthorized disclosures of confidential information, breaches of data security, failure to remedy system failures or other material contract breaches. We frequently receive confidential information from our clients, including confidential client data that we use to develop solutions. If any person, including one of our employees, misappropriates client confidential information, or if client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a breach of our computer 17 Table of Contents systems, including an attack by computer programmers or hackers who may develop or deploy viruses, worms, or other malicious software programs, system failures or otherwise, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients or their customers. Further, any such compromise to our computer systems could disrupt our operations, as well as our clients’ operations. Further, many of our assignments involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and handle very large volumes of transactions. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. Any such failures by us could result in claims for substantial damages by our clients against us. We may be liable for breaches of confidentiality or data security, defects in the applications or systems we deliver or other material contract breaches that we may commit during the performance of our services (collectively, “Contract Breaches”). In certain circumstances we agree to unlimited liability for Contract Breaches. Additionally, we cannot be assured that any insurance coverages will be applicable and enforceable in all cases, or sufficient to cover substantial liabilities that we may incur. Further, we cannot be assured that contractual limitations on liability will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Accordingly, even if our insurance coverages or contractual limitations on liability are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for Contract Breaches could be material in amount and affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, such claims may harm our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, and create liability for us as well as harm our reputation and client relationships. The services that we offer to clients may infringe the intellectual property (“IP”) rights of third parties and result in legal claims against our clients and Sapient. These claims may damage our reputation, adversely impact our client relationships and create liability for us. Moreover, we generally agree in our client contracts to indemnify the clients for expenses or liabilities they incur as a result of third party IP infringement claims associated with our services, and the resolution of these claims, irrespective of whether a court determines that our services infringed another party’s IP rights, may be time-consuming, disruptive to our business and extraordinarily costly. Finally, in connection with an IP infringement dispute, we may be required to cease using or developing certain IP that we offer to our clients. These circumstances could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue as well as require us to incur significant expense to develop alternative or modified services for our clients. We may be unable to protect our proprietary methodology. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary methodology and other IP rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors and clients, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our IP rights. Our stock price is volatile and may result in substantial losses for investors. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations at various times in the past. Our trading price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarterly variations in operating results and achievement of key business metrics by us or our competitors; • changes in operating results estimates by securities analysts; 18 Table of Contents • any differences between our reported results and securities analysts’ published or unpublished expectations; • announcements of new contracts or service offerings made by us or our competitors; • announcements of acquisitions or joint ventures made by us or our competitors; and • general economic or stock market conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. The commencement of this type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Certain of our directors have significant voting power and may effectively control the outcome of any stockholder vote. Jerry A. Greenberg, current Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors and former Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and J. Stuart Moore, former Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors and Co-Chief Executive Officer and current member of our Board of Directors, hold, in the aggregate, approximately 12% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 21, 2013. As a result, they have the ability to substantially influence and, in some cases, may effectively control the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Sapient, even if such a change in control would benefit other investors. Messrs. Greenberg and Moore also beneficially own substantial holdings not represented by this percentage over which they have no voting or dispositive powers. We are dependent on our key employees. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of a number of key employees. Our employment arrangements with key personnel provide that employment is terminable at will by either party. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if our key employees resign from Sapient to join a competitor or to form a competing company, the loss of such personnel and any resulting loss of existing or potential clients or employees to any such competitor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that any agreements we require our employees to enter into will be effective in preventing them from engaging in these actions or that courts or other adjudicative entities will substantially enforce these agreements. We may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from acquisitions. The anticipated benefits from any acquisitions that we have undertaken in the past or may undertake might not be achieved. For example, if we acquire a company, we cannot be certain that clients of the acquired business will continue to conduct business with us, or that employees of the acquired business will continue their employment or integrate successfully into our operations and culture. The identification, consummation and integration of acquisitions require substantial attention from management. The diversion of management’s attention, as well as any difficulties encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may incur significant expenses in completing any such acquisitions, and we may assume significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisition. The failure to successfully and timely implement certain financial system changes to improve operating efficiency and enhance our reporting controls could harm our business. We have implemented and continue to install several upgrades and enhancements to our financial systems. We expect these initiatives to enable us to achieve greater operating and financial reporting efficiencies and also 19 Table of Contents enhance our existing control environment through increased levels of automation of certain processes. Failure to successfully execute these initiatives in a timely, effective and efficient manner could result in the disruption of our operations, the inability to comply with our obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, significant deficiencies or a material weakness, and/or the inability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner. Changes in generally accepted accounting principles may materially adversely affect us. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board promulgates new accounting principles. When we adopt new accounting principles, the results of such adoption could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 