Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Acquisition of McDATA Corporation The failure to successfully integrate McDATA’s business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results. Brocade believes that the acquisition of McDATA will result in certain benefits, including certain cost synergies, product innovations, and operational efficiencies. However, Brocade’s ability to realize these anticipated benefits depends on successfully combining the businesses of Brocade and McDATA. Challenges of integration include the combined company’s ability to incorporate acquired products and business technology into its existing product lines, including consolidating technology with duplicative functionality or designed on a different technological architecture and provide for interoperability, and its ability to sell the acquired products through Brocade’s existing or acquired sales channels. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger for a variety of reasons, including the following: • revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels; • Brocade’s inability to conduct extensive integration planning with McDATA prior to the completion of the merger; • failure to successfully execute on our integration plan; • failure of customers to accept new products or to continue as customers of the combined company; • failure to successfully manage relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, end-users, distributors and suppliers; • failure to qualify the combined company’s products with OEM customers on a timely basis or at all; • failure to successfully develop interoperability between the products of Brocade and McDATA; 10 Table of Contents • failure to leverage the increased scale of the combined company quickly and effectively; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; • the loss of key employees; • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; and • failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively. The integration of McDATA into Brocade will result in significant expenses and accounting charges that adversely affect Brocade’s operating results and financial condition. Additional costs may include: costs of employee redeployment; relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses; accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments; reorganization or closure of facilities; taxes; advisor and professional fees and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease Brocade’s net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. Brocade may also experience additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. The price of Brocade’s common stock could decline to the extent Brocade’s financial results are materially affected by the foregoing charges and costs, or if the foregoing charges and costs are larger than anticipated. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate McDATA’s business and operations, or if there are delays in combining the businesses, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. General customer uncertainty related to the merger could harm Brocade and the combined company. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on customers, employees, distributors and suppliers may have an adverse effect on Brocade and, following the merger, on the combined company. Brocade and McDATA’s customers may, in response to the announcement of the proposed merger, or due to concerns about the completion of the proposed merger, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Further, customer concerns about changes or delays in Brocade’s product roadmap may negatively affect customer purchasing decisions. Customers could also be reluctant to purchase the products and services of McDATA or Brocade due to uncertainty about the direction of their technology, products and services, and willingness to support and service existing products which may be discontinued. This uncertainty may also be used as a competitive advantage by Brocade’s competitors during the pendency of the merger and cause customers to purchase a competitor’s products in lieu of Brocade’s products. As a result, there may be a loss of revenue opportunities and market share for Brocade. In addition, customers, OEMs, distributors, resellers, value added resellers, or VARs, and others may also seek to change existing agreements with McDATA or Brocade as a result of the proposed merger, including possibly reallocating orders between Brocade and its competitors. OEMs, resellers, distributors, VARs and other third parties of strategic importance may delay or refuse to certify, support or promote McDATA’s or Brocade’s technology, products and services due to uncertainty created by the proposed merger. If Brocade or McDATA’s customers delay or defer purchasing decisions, or choose to purchase from a competitor, the revenues of Brocade and McDATA, respectively, and the revenues of the combined company, could materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue could be lower than expected. The required regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Although Brocade and McDATA have agreed in the merger agreement to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite governmental approvals, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained. In addition, the governmental entities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. While Brocade does not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the merger or reducing the anticipated benefits of the merger. If Brocade becomes subject to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals 11 Table of Contents required to complete the merger, the business and results of operations of the combined company may be adversely affected. Brocade may also elect to challenge and litigate conditions or changes proposed by governmental authorities. Any such litigation could be costly and divert management’s attention from the business. There is also no assurance that Brocade will be successful in any such litigation. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of Brocade and McDATA. Completion of the merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, including obtaining requisite regulatory and stockholder approvals, and McDATA and Brocade may be unable to obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all. If the merger is not completed, the price of Brocade common stock may decline. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of Brocade may be adversely affected and without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger. Brocade is also subject to pay certain fees and costs if the merger is not consummated, including the following: (i) a termination fee of $22 million or $60 million if the merger is terminated under certain circumstances, and (ii) certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees whether or not the merger is completed. Brocade and McDATA could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the transaction. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect Brocade’s and McDATA’s business, financial results and stock price. Integrating Brocade and McDATA following the merger may divert management’s attention away from the combined company’s operations. Successful integration of Brocade’s and McDATA’s operations, products and personnel will place a significant burden on the combined company’s management and internal resources. Brocade may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating the different cultures and practices of McDATA, as well as in assimilating McDATA’s broad and geographically dispersed personnel. Further, the difficulties of integrating McDATA could disrupt the combined company’s ongoing business, and distract its management focus from other opportunities and challenges. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm the combined company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Because the market price of Brocade common stock will fluctuate, the value of the Brocade common stock issued in connection with the merger will not be known until the closing of the merger. Upon the completion of the merger, each share of McDATA Class A and Class B common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be converted into the right to receive 0.75 of a share of Brocade’s common stock. Because the exchange ratio for Brocade common shares to be issued in the merger has been fixed, the value of the merger consideration will depend upon the market price of Brocade common stock. The value of Brocade’s common stock to be issued in the merger could be considerably higher or lower than it was at the time the merger consideration was negotiated. The share prices of Brocade common stock, McDATA Class A common stock and McDATA Class B common stock are subject to the general price fluctuations in the market for publicly-traded equity securities, and the prices of both companies’ common stock have experienced significant volatility in the past. Neither Brocade nor McDATA is permitted to terminate the merger agreement or resolicit the vote of their respective stockholders solely because of changes in the market prices of either company’s stock. Risks Related to Brocade’s Business Brocade’s future revenue growth depends on its ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The market for storage networks and data management is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. Brocade’s future success depends upon its ability to address the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. This risk will become more pronounced as the storage network and data management markets becomes more competitive and as demand for new and improved technologies increases. 12 Table of Contents Brocade has introduced a significant number of new products in recent history, including products across its SAN product family, which accounts for a substantial portion of Brocade’s revenues. Brocade has also launched a number of File Area Network solutions as well as new service and support offerings. For example, as of the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, approximately 68% of our products had been in the market less than six quarters. New offerings in fiscal year 2006 include the Brocade 4900 64-port switch, and the enhanced Brocade 48000 director, which now supports up to 384 ports in a single chassis as well as the addition of iSCSI capabilities. Brocade must achieve widespread market acceptance of Brocade’s new products and service offerings in order to realize the benefits of Brocade’s investments. The rate of market adoption is also critical. The success of Brocade’s product and service offerings depends on numerous factors, including its ability to: • properly define the new products and services; • timely develop and introduce the new products and services; • differentiate Brocade’s new products and services from its competitors’ technology and product offerings; and • address the complexities of interoperability of Brocade’s products with its OEM partners’ server and storage products and its competitors’ products. Various factors impacting market acceptance are outside of Brocade’s control, including the availability and price of competing products, and alternative technologies; product qualification requirements by Brocade’s OEM partners, which can cause delays in the market acceptance; and the ability of its OEM partners to successfully distribute, support and provide training for its products. If Brocade is not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services, its business and results of operations will be harmed. Brocade is currently expanding its product and service offerings to include software applications and professional and support services, and Brocade’s operating results will suffer if these initiatives are not successful. Brocade has made a series of investments, and plans to continue to invest, in offerings focused on new markets that are adjacent or parallel to Brocade’s traditional market, including new and emerging markets. For instance, Brocade has recently made a series of introductions in the emerging File Area Network (FAN) market with several enhancements to existing products in its family of file management software solutions which includes Brocade StorageX, Brocade Wide Area File Services, or WAFS, and Brocade File Lifecycle Manager, or FLM. In addition, Brocade has added ten new professional service offerings to its solution portfolio. Brocade’s strategy is to derive competitive advantage and drive incremental revenue growth through such investments. As a result, Brocade believes these new markets could substantially increase its total available market opportunities. However, Brocade cannot be certain that it has accurately identified and estimated these market opportunities. Moreover, Brocade cannot assure you that its new strategic offerings will achieve market acceptance, or that Brocade will benefit fully from the substantial investments it has made and plans to continue to make in them. Brocade may also have only limited experience in these new markets given that such markets are adjacent or parallel to Brocade’s core market. As a result, Brocade may not be able to successfully penetrate or realize anticipated revenue from these new potential market opportunities. Brocade also faces greater challenges in accurately predicting its revenue and margins with respect to these other markets. Developing new offerings also requires significant, upfront, incremental investments that may not result in revenue for an extended period of time, if at all. Particularly as Brocade seeks to diversify its product and service offerings, Brocade expects to incur significant costs and expenses for product development, sales, marketing and customer services, most of which are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. In addition, these investments have caused, and will likely continue to result in, higher operating expenses and if they are not successful, Brocade’s operating income and operating margin will deteriorate. These new offerings may also involve cost and revenue structures that are different from those used in Brocade’s historical business, which would impact Brocade’s operating results. 13 Table of Contents Because these new offerings may address different market needs than those it has historically addressed, Brocade may face a number of additional challenges, such as: • successfully identifying market opportunities and new technologies; • developing new customer relationships both with new and existing customers; • expanding Brocade’s relationships with its existing OEM partners and end-users; • managing different sales cycles; • hiring qualified personnel with appropriate skill sets on a timely basis; • establishing effective distribution channels and alternative routes to market; and • estimating the level of customer acceptance and rate of market adoption. Brocade’s new product and service offerings also may contain some features that are currently offered by Brocade’s OEM partners, which could cause conflicts with partners on whom Brocade relies to bring its current products to customers and thus negatively impact Brocade’s relationship with such partners. Brocade’s business and operations are also experiencing rapid change as it diversifies its product and service offerings. For instance, Brocade has hired a number of additional employees, and plans to continue to add additional personnel and resources, to further develop and market these new offerings. If Brocade fails to effectively manage these changes and implement necessary changes, Brocade’s business and operating results could be harmed and Brocade may have to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements from these changes. Increased market competition may lead to reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. The storage network and data management markets are becoming increasingly more competitive as new products, services and technologies are introduced by existing competitors and as new competitors enter the market. Increased competition in the past has resulted in greater pricing pressure, and reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. For example, Brocade expects to experience increased competition in future periods as other companies gain market traction with recently released 4 Gbit products that are intended to compete with Brocade’s 4 Gbit products. Moreover, new competitive products could be based on existing technologies or new technologies that may or may not be compatible with Brocade’s storage network technology. Competitive products include, but are not limited to, non-Fibre Channel based emerging products utilizing Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, InfiniBand, and Internet Small Computer System Interface (“iSCSI”). Currently, Brocade believes that it principally faces competition from providers of Fibre Channel switching products for interconnecting servers and storage. These competitors include Cisco Systems, McDATA (with which Brocade will continue to be a competitor until Brocade’s pending acquisition of McDATA closes) and QLogic Corporation. In addition, Brocade’s OEM partners, who also have relationships with some of Brocade’s current competitors, could become new competitors by developing and introducing products that compete with Brocade’s product offerings, by choosing to sell Brocade’s competitors’ products instead of Brocade’s products, or by offering preferred pricing or promotions on Brocade’s competitors’ products. Competitive pressure will likely intensify as Brocade’s industry experiences further consolidation in connection with mergers by Brocade, its competitors and its OEM partners. Some of Brocade’s competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater human, financial and capital resources than Brocade does. Brocade’s competitors could adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Brocade. Brocade believes that competition based on price may become more aggressive than it has traditionally experienced. Brocade’s competitors could also devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than Brocade may be able to support and, as a result, be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer or market requirements. Brocade’s failure to successfully compete in the market would harm Brocade’s business and financial results. 14 Table of Contents Brocade’s competitors may also put pressure on Brocade’s distribution model of selling products to customers through OEM solution providers by focusing a large number of sales personnel on end-user customers or by entering into strategic partnerships. For example, one of Brocade’s competitors has formed a strategic partnership with a provider of network storage systems, which includes an agreement whereby Brocade’s competitor resells the storage systems of its partner in exchange for sales by the partner of Brocade’s competitor’s products. Such strategic partnerships, if successful, may influence Brocade to change Brocade’s traditional distribution model. Brocade depends on OEM partners for a majority of Brocade’s revenues, and the loss of any of these OEM partners or a decrease in their purchases could significantly reduce Brocade’s revenues and negatively affect Brocade’s financial results. Brocade depends on recurring purchases from a limited number of large OEM partners for the majority of its revenue. As a result, these large OEM partners have a significant influence on Brocade’s quarterly and annual financial results. Brocade’s agreements with its OEM partners are typically cancelable, non-exclusive, have no minimum purchase requirements and have no specific timing requirements for purchases. For fiscal year 2006, three customers each represented ten percent or more of Brocade’s total revenues for a combined total of 73 percent. Brocade anticipates that its revenues and operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of OEM partners. The loss of any one significant OEM partner, or a decrease in the level of sales to any one significant OEM partner, or unsuccessful quarterly negotiation on key terms, conditions or timing of purchase orders placed during a quarter, would likely cause serious harm to Brocade’s business and financial results. In addition, some of Brocade’s OEM partners purchase Brocade’s products for their inventories in anticipation of customer demand. These OEM partners make decisions to purchase inventory based on a variety of factors, including their product qualification cycles and their expectations of end customer demand, which may be affected by seasonality and their internal supply management objectives. Others require that Brocade maintain inventories of Brocade’s products in hubs adjacent to their manufacturing facilities and purchase Brocade’s products only as necessary to fulfill immediate customer demand. If more of Brocade’s OEM partners transition to a hub model, form partnerships, alliances or agreements with other companies that divert business away from Brocade; or otherwise change their business practices, their ordering patterns may become less predictable. Consequently, changes in ordering patterns may affect both the timing and volatility of Brocade’s reported revenues. The timing of sales to Brocade’s OEM partners, and consequently the timing and volatility of Brocade’s reported revenues, may be further affected by the product introduction schedules of Brocade’s OEM partners. Brocade’s OEM partners evaluate and qualify Brocade’s products for a limited time period before they begin to market and sell them. Assisting Brocade’s OEM partners through the evaluation process requires significant sales, marketing and engineering management efforts on Brocade’s part, particularly if Brocade’s products are being qualified with multiple distribution partners at the same time. In addition, once Brocade’s products have been qualified, its customer agreements have no minimum purchase commitments. Brocade may not be able to effectively maintain or expand its distribution channels, manage distribution relationships successfully, or market its products through distribution partners. Brocade must continually assess, anticipate and respond to the needs of its distribution partners and their customers, and ensure that its products integrate with their solutions. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage its distribution relationships or the failure of its distribution partners to sell Brocade’s products could reduce Brocade’s revenues significantly. In addition, Brocade’s ability to respond to the needs of its distribution partners in the future may depend on third parties producing complementary products and applications for Brocade’s products. If Brocade fails to respond successfully to the needs of these groups, its business and financial results could be harmed. The prices of Brocade’s products have declined in the past, and Brocade expects the price of Brocade’s products to continue to decline, which could reduce Brocade’s revenues, gross margins and profitability. The average selling price for Brocade’s products has declined in the past, and Brocade expects it to continue to decline in the future as a result of changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressure, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, the entrance of new competitors or other factors. For example, in 2005, Brocade introduced and began shipping a number of new products that expand and extend the breadth of Brocade’s product offerings. Several of these new products have lower revenue per port and lower gross 15 Table of Contents margin than Brocade’s traditional products. If Brocade is unable to offset any negative impact that changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, enhanced marketing programs, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, or other factors may have on it by increasing the volume of products shipped or reducing product manufacturing cost, Brocade’s total revenues and gross margins will be negatively impacted. In addition, to maintain Brocade’s gross margins Brocade must maintain or increase the number of products shipped, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of Brocade’s products. While Brocade has successfully reduced the cost of manufacturing Brocade’s products in the past, Brocade may not be able to continue to reduce cost of production at historical rates. Moreover, most of Brocade’s expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, Brocade may not be able to decrease its spending quickly enough or in sufficient amounts to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, Brocade could incur losses, Brocade’s operating results and gross margins could be below its expectations and the expectations of investors and stock market analysts, and its stock price could be negatively affected. The loss of Brocade’s third-party contract manufacturer would adversely affect Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. The loss of Brocade’s third-party contract manufacturer could significantly impact Brocade’s ability to produce its products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is a lengthy and expensive process. If Brocade is required to change its contract manufacturer or if its contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers could be delayed resulting in loss of revenues and Brocade’s competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. Brocade is dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components. Brocade purchases certain key components used in the manufacture of its products from single or limited sources. Brocade purchases specific ASICs from a single source, and Brocade purchases microprocessors, certain connectors, small form-factor pluggable transceivers, or SFP’s, logic chips, power supplies and programmable logic devices from limited sources. Brocade also licenses certain third-party software that is incorporated into Brocade’s operating system software and other software products. If Brocade is unable to obtain these and other components when required or Brocade experiences significant component defects, Brocade may not be able to deliver Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers in a timely manner. As a result, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Brocade uses rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine component requirements. If Brocade overestimates component requirements, Brocade may have excess inventory, which would increase Brocade’s costs. If Brocade underestimates component requirements, Brocade may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing process and result in lost or delayed revenue. In addition, lead times for components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and demand for a component at a given time. Brocade also may experience shortages of certain components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing and sales processes. If Brocade overestimates or underestimates Brocade’s component requirements, or if Brocade experiences shortages, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Brocade’s business is subject to cyclical fluctuations and uneven sales patterns. Many of Brocade’s OEM partners experience uneven sales patterns in their businesses due to the cyclical nature of information technology spending. For example, some of Brocade’s partners close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each fiscal quarter, and other partners experience spikes in sales during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Because the majority of Brocade’s sales are derived from a small number of OEM partners, when they experience seasonality, Brocade typically experiences 16 Table of Contents similar seasonality. Historically, Brocade’s first and fourth fiscal quarters are seasonally stronger quarters than its second and third fiscal quarters. In addition, Brocade has experienced quarters where uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners have resulted in a significant portion of Brocade’s revenue occurring in the last month of Brocade’s fiscal quarter. This exposes Brocade to additional inventory risk as it has to order products in anticipation of expected future orders and additional sales risk if Brocade is unable to fulfill unanticipated demand. Brocade is not able to predict the degree to which the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners or other customers will affect Brocade’s business in the future particularly as Brocade release new products. Brocade has been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits arising from Brocade’s internal reviews and related restatements of Brocade’s financial statements during 2005, and Brocade may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses as well as result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Brocade is subject to a number of lawsuits arising from Brocade’s internal reviews and the related restatements of Brocade’s financial statements in 2005, some purportedly filed on behalf of a class of Brocade’s stockholders, against Brocade and certain of its executive officers claiming violations of securities laws and others purportedly filed on behalf of Brocade against certain of Brocade’s executive officers and board members, and Brocade may become the subject of additional private or government actions. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of Brocade’s business, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation, such as a court judgment against the Company resulting in monetary damages or penalties, could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of Brocade’s internal reviews and related restatements, Brocade is subject to investigations by the SEC and Department of Justice, or DOJ, which may not be resolved favorably and have required, and will continue to require, a significant amount of management time and attention and accounting resources and legal expense, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations and cash flows. The SEC and the DOJ are currently conducting investigations of Brocade. The period of time necessary to resolve the SEC and DOJ investigations is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of Brocade’s business. If Brocade is subject to an adverse finding resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigation, Brocade could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon Brocade. During the three months ended January 28, 2006 Brocade began active settlement discussions with the Staff of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, or the Staff. As a result of these discussions, for the three months ended January 28, 2006 Brocade recorded $7.0 million provision for an estimated settlement expense. The $7.0 million estimated settlement expense is based on an offer of settlement that Brocade made to the Staff and for which the Staff has stated it intends to recommend to the SEC’s Commissioners. The offer of settlement is contingent upon final approval by the SEC’s Commissioners. The restatements of Brocade’s financial results in 2005, the ongoing SEC and DOJ investigations and any negative outcome that may occur from these investigations could impact Brocade’s relationships with customers and Brocade’s ability to generate revenue. In addition, considerable legal and accounting expenses related to these matters have been incurred to date and significant expenditures are expected to continue to be incurred in the future. The SEC and DOJ investigations could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In July 2006, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California, the SEC, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced the filing of civil and, in some cases criminal, charges against certain former executive officers of Brocade. While those actions are targeted against former executive officers and not Brocade, those actions may nevertheless have an adverse impact on Brocade. In addition to the risks noted above, Brocade has certain indemnification obligations to such former officers in connection with such actions, which may result in significant expense to Brocade. 17 Table of Contents Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading price of Brocade’s stock. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, any of which may cause Brocade’s stock price to fluctuate. Factors that may affect the predictability of Brocade’s annual and quarterly results include, but are not limited to, the following: • announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by Brocade and its competitors or its OEM partners; • the timing of customer orders, product qualifications, and product introductions of Brocade’s OEM partners; • seasonal fluctuations; • changes, disruptions or downturns in general economic conditions, particularly in the information technology industry; • declines in average selling prices for Brocade’s products as a result of competitive pricing pressures or new product introductions by Brocade or its competitors; • the emergence of new competitors and new technologies in the storage network and data management markets; • deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, services, or product enhancements introduced by Brocade or its competitors; • Brocade’s ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of its OEM customers; • Brocade’s ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-sourced components, including ASICs, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips, and programmable logic devices; • increases in prices of components used in the manufacture of Brocade’s products; • Brocade’s ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels; • variations in the mix of Brocade’s products sold and the mix of distribution channels and geographies through which they are sold; • pending or threatened litigation; • stock-based compensation expense that is affected by Brocade’s stock price; • new legislation and regulatory developments; and • other risk factors detailed in this section entitled “Risks Related to Brocade’s Business.” Accordingly, the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Brocade cannot assure you that in some future quarter Brocade’s revenues or operating results will not be below Brocade’s projections or the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, which could cause Brocade’s stock price to decline. The failure to accurately forecast demand for Brocade’s products or the failure to successfully manage the production of Brocade’s products could negatively affect the supply of key components for Brocade’s products and Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. Brocade provides product forecasts to its contract manufacturer and places purchase orders with it in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to Brocade’s customers. Moreover, in preparing sales and demand forecasts, Brocade relies largely on input from its OEM partners. Therefore, if Brocade or its OEM partners are unable to accurately forecast demand, or if Brocade fails to effectively communicate with its distribution partners about end-user demand or other time-sensitive information, sales and demand forecasts may not reflect the most accurate, up-to-date information. If these forecasts are inaccurate, Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing 18 Table of Contents capacity from its contract manufacturer to meet customers’ delivery requirements, or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories. Furthermore, Brocade may not be able to identify forecast discrepancies until late in its fiscal quarter. Consequently, Brocade may not be able to make adjustments to its business model. If Brocade is unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturer, if Brocade accumulates excess inventories, or if Brocade is unable to make necessary adjustments to Brocade’s business model, revenue may be delayed or even lost to Brocade’s competitors, and Brocade’s business and financial results may be harmed. In addition, although the purchase orders placed with Brocade’s contract manufacturer are cancelable, in certain circumstances Brocade could be required to purchase certain unused material not returnable, usable by, or sold to other customers if Brocade cancels any of Brocade’s orders. This purchase commitment exposure is particularly high in periods of new product introductions and product transitions. If Brocade is required to purchase unused material from Brocade’s contract manufacturer, Brocade would incur unanticipated expenses and Brocade’s business and financial results could be negatively affected. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future mergers and strategic investments, and integration of acquired companies or technologies may negatively impact Brocade’s business. Brocade has in the past, and may in the future, acquire or make strategic investments in additional companies, products or technologies. Most recently, Brocade announced that Brocade entered into an agreement to acquire McDATA in August 2006. Other examples include the acquisition of NuView, Inc. in March 2006 and Therion Software Corporation in May 2005, and a strategic investment in Tacit Networks in May 2005 (acquired by Packeteer, Inc. in May 2006). Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other mergers or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; • assumption of debt and contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from Brocade’s daily operations and business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering into markets in which Brocade have limited, or no prior experience; • failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • incurrence of merger-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact Brocade’s operating results; • potential write-down of goodwill and/or acquired intangible assets, which are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, and could significantly impact Brocade’s operating results; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • dilution of the percentage of Brocade’s stockholders to the extent equity is used as consideration or option plans are assumed; and • potential loss of Brocade’s key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that Brocade acquires, or to realize expected benefits of Brocade’s mergers or strategic investments, Brocade’s business and financial results may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If Brocade loses key personnel or is unable to hire additional qualified personnel, Brocade’s business may be harmed. Brocade’s success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Brocade believes its future success will also depend, in large part, upon Brocade’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other personnel, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. Brocade has experienced difficulty in hiring qualified personnel in areas such as application specific integrated circuits, software, system and test, sales, marketing, service, key management and customer support. In addition, Brocade’s past reductions in force could potentially make attracting and retaining qualified employees more difficult in the future. Brocade’s ability to hire qualified personnel may also be negatively impacted by Brocade’s internal reviews and financial statement restatements in 2005, related investigations by the SEC and DOJ, and Brocade’s stock price. The loss of the services of any of Brocade’s key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect Brocade’s ability to sell its products. In addition, companies in the computer storage and server industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Brocade may be subject to such claims in the future as Brocade seeks to hire additional qualified personnel. Such claims could result in material litigation. As a result, Brocade could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is resolved against Brocade. Brocade is subject to environmental regulations that could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business. Brocade is subject to various environmental and other regulations governing product safety, materials usage, packaging and other environmental impacts in the various countries where Brocade’s products are sold. For example, many of Brocade’s products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium and other substances, and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of Brocade’s products when they have reached the end of their useful life. For example, in Europe substance restrictions apply to products sold, and certain of Brocade’s OEM partners require compliance with these or more stringent requirements. In some cases Brocade redesigned Brocade’s products to comply with these substance restrictions as well as related requirements imposed by Brocade’s OEM customers. In addition, recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements apply to products Brocade sells in Europe. Brocade is also coordinating with Brocade’s suppliers to provide Brocade with compliant materials, parts and components. Despite Brocade’s efforts to ensure that Brocade’s products comply with new and emerging requirements, Brocade cannot provide absolute assurance that its products will, in all cases comply with such requirements. If Brocade’s products do not comply with the European substance restrictions or other applicable environmental laws, Brocade could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions, and contract damage claims. In addition, Brocade could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into one or more jurisdictions, and required to recall and replace any non-compliant products already shipped, which would disrupt Brocade’s ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories and harm to Brocade’s business and customer relationships. Brocade’s suppliers may also fail to provide it with compliant materials, parts and components despite Brocade’s requirement to them to provide compliant materials, parts and components, which could impact Brocade’s ability to timely produce compliant products and, accordingly could disrupt Brocade’s business. In addition, various other countries and states in the United States have issued, or are in the process of issuing, other environmental regulations that may impose additional restrictions or obligations and require further changes to Brocade’s products. 20 Table of Contents Brocade’s revenues will be affected by changes in domestic and international information technology spending and overall demand for storage area network solutions. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions and reduced global information technology spending rates have adversely affected Brocade’s operating results. Brocade is unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and when information technology spending rates will be affected. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international information technology spending rates, or if information technology spending rates do not improve, Brocade’s revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Even if information technology spending rates increase, Brocade cannot be certain that the market for storage network and data management solutions will be positively impacted. Brocade’s storage networking products are sold as part of storage systems and subsystems. As a result, the demand for Brocade’s storage networking products has historically been affected by changes in storage requirements associated with growth related to new applications and an increase in transaction levels. Although in the past Brocade has experienced historical growth in Brocade’s business as enterprise-class customers have adopted storage area network technology, demand for storage network products in the enterprise-class sector could be adversely affected if the overall economy weakens or experiences greater uncertainty, or if larger businesses were to decide to limit new equipment purchases. If information technology spending levels are restricted, and new products improve Brocade’s customers’ ability to utilize their existing storage infrastructure, the demand for storage network products may decline. If this occurs, Brocade’s business and financial results will be harmed. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage the transition between its new products and its older products may adversely affect Brocade’s financial results. As Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. For example, Brocade’s introduction of 4 Gigabit per second, or Gbit, technology solutions that replaced many of Brocade’s 2 Gbit products contributed to a quarterly drop in revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 and write-downs of $3.4 million and $1.8 million for excess and obsolete inventory during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2005, respectively. When Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade faces numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. Brocade’s business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements that have increased both its costs and the risk of noncompliance. Brocade is subject to rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which Brocade’s common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and Nasdaq, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brocade’s efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Brocade is subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. For example, in November 2005, Brocade was notified by the Internal Revenue Service that Brocade’s domestic federal income tax return for the year ended October 25, 2003 was subject to audit. Additionally, in May 2006, the Franchise Tax Board notified Brocade that its California income tax returns for the years ended October 25, 2003 and October 30, 2004 are subject to audit. The SEC also periodically reviews Brocade’s public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to Brocade’s historical financial results. 21 Table of Contents Brocade’s future operating expenses may be adversely affected by changes in Brocade’s stock price. A portion of Brocade’s outstanding stock options are subject to variable accounting. Under variable accounting, Brocade is required to remeasure the value of the options, and the corresponding compensation expense, at the end of each reporting period until the option is exercised, cancelled or expires unexercised. As a result, the stock-based compensation expense Brocade recognizes in any given period can vary substantially due to changes in the market value of Brocade’s common stock. Volatility associated with stock price movements has resulted in compensation benefits when Brocade’s stock price has declined and compensation expense when Brocade’s stock price has increased. For example, the market value of Brocade’s common stock at the end of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 was $4.48, $3.60 and $4.62 per share, respectively. Accordingly, Brocade recorded compensation expense (benefit) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 of approximately $(0.2) million and $0.3 million, respectively. Brocade is unable to predict the future market value of Brocade’s common stock and therefore is unable to predict the compensation expense or benefit that Brocade will record in future periods. Changes in accounting rules, including the expensing of stock options granted to Brocade’s employees, could have a material impact on Brocade’s reported business and financial results. The U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the PCAOB, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on Brocade’s reported financial results. On December 15, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires Brocade to measure compensation expense for employee stock options using the fair value method beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, which is the quarter ended January 28, 2006. SFAS 123R applies to all outstanding stock options that are not vested at the effective date and grants of new stock options made subsequent to the effective date. As a result of SFAS 123R, Brocade recorded higher levels of stock based compensation due to differences between the valuation methods of SFAS 123R and APB 25. In prior periods, Brocade recorded any compensation expense associated with stock option grants to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25. Brocade has extensive international operations, which subjects it to additional business risks. A significant portion of Brocade’s sales occur in international jurisdictions and Brocade’s contract manufacturer has significant operations in China. Brocade also plans to continue to expand its international operations and sales activities. Expansion of international operations will involve inherent risks that Brocade may not be able to control, including: • supporting multiple languages; • recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell, and support Brocade’s products; • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; • multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; 22 Table of Contents • managing a development team in geographically disparate locations, including China and India; and • more complicated logistics and distribution arrangements. In addition, international political instability may halt or hinder Brocade’s ability to do business and may increase Brocade’s costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, can suddenly increase international tensions. In addition, concerns about other international crises, such as the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza, or bird flu, and West Nile viruses, may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect Brocade’s business operations or the operations of Brocade’s OEM partners, contract manufacturer and suppliers. To date, no material amount of Brocade’s international revenues and costs of revenues have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Brocade’s products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase Brocade’s operating costs in foreign locations. In the future, a larger portion of Brocade’s international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will subject Brocade to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. Brocade currently does not have hedging program in place to offset its foreign currency risk. Undetected software or hardware errors could increase Brocade’s costs, reduce Brocade’s revenues and delay market acceptance of Brocade’s products. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, or bugs, when first introduced or as new versions are released. Brocade’s products are becoming increasingly complex and, particularly as Brocade continues to expand Brocade’s product portfolio to include software-centric products, including software licensed from third parties, errors may be found from time to time in Brocade’s products. Some types of errors also may not be detected until the product is installed in a heavy production or user environment. In addition, Brocade’s products are often combined with other products, including software, from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause Brocade to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. Moreover, the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by another vendor’s storage network and data management products or Brocade’s, could delay market acceptance of Brocade’s new products. Brocade relies on licenses from third parties and the loss or inability to obtain any such license could harm Brocade’s business. Many of Brocade’s products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of Brocade’s products, Brocade believes that, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Brocade’s inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if Brocade fails to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in Brocade’s products, Brocade may be required to license key portions of Brocade’s products on a royalty free basis or expose key parts of source code. Third-parties may bring infringement claims against Brocade, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Brocade has in the past been involved in intellectual property-related disputes, including lawsuits with Vixel Corporation, Raytheon Company and McDATA, and Brocade may be involved in such disputes in the future, to protect Brocade’s intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property 23 Table of Contents of others. Brocade also may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to infringement of third party intellectual property rights pursuant to Brocade’s agreements with OEM partners or customers. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject Brocade to significant liability for damages and invalidation of proprietary rights. Any such lawsuits, even if ultimately resolved in Brocade’s favor, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property dispute also could force Brocade to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may require Brocade to pay royalty or license fees, or to license Brocade’s intellectual property to such owner, and which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and • redesign those products or services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If Brocade is forced to take any of the foregoing actions, Brocade’s business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Business interruptions could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade’s operations and the operations of its suppliers, contract manufacturer and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond Brocade’s control. For example, a substantial portion of Brocade’s facilities, including its corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. In the event of a major earthquake, Brocade could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and loss of life. Brocade does not carry earthquake insurance and has not set aside funds or reserves to cover such potential earthquake-related losses. In addition, Brocade’s contract manufacturer has a major facility located in an area that is subject to hurricanes. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Brocade or its suppliers, contract manufacturer or customers, shipments could be delayed and Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Provisions in Brocade’s charter documents, customer agreements, and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or merger that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • requiring super-majority voting to effect amendments to the foregoing provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with Brocade, and Brocade’s agreements with certain of Brocade’s customers require that Brocade give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain manufacturing rights following a change of control. Brocade’s various anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. In addition, Brocade currently has in place a stockholder rights plan; however, in November 2006, Brocade’s board of directors determined to terminate the rights plan, which is expected to be done in the near future. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 