Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of Colazal will be significantly less than historical sales due to the approval of three generic competitors. Historically we have derived a majority of our revenue from sales of Colazal. On December 28, 2007, the Office of Generic Drugs, or OGD, approved three generic balsalazide capsule products, and we announced that we had 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements entered into an agreement with Watson Pharma, Inc. to market and sell an authorized generic of Colazal. Watson will pay Salix a portion of its profits for sales under the agreement, and Salix will supply Watson with all its requirements for the product. The price competition among the generic firms has resulted in dramatic price erosion compared to pricing prior to the generic approvals, and we expect that the market share that Watson obtains will be significantly less profitable than Colazal’s previous market share. In addition, we have implemented various programs in 2008 that attempt to reduce the market share lost to the generic products, however these programs will reduce the profitability of Colazal sales in 2008 and thereafter. As a result, we expect the future sales of Colazal to be significantly less than historical sales. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a $34.6 million reserve which is our estimate of Colazal previously sold to wholesalers that may be returned to us under our return policy as a result of these generic approvals, based on data currently available to us. Since we have limited experience on the actual effect that the generics will have on Colazal demand, this estimate could be adjusted higher or lower in future periods based on actual returns. The combined effect of Colazal’s reduction in market share, the price erosion in the 5-ASA market and the limited expected contribution from Watson’s share of the generic market will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that additional generics could be approved, further increasing competition and pricing pressure. We expect to be unprofitable and experience negative cash flow during 2008, and we may need additional capital. Due to the generic approvals discussed above, we will be unprofitable and have negative cash flow during 2008. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with cash generated from the sale of our products will be sufficient to fund our operations for 2008. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • patient and physician demand for our products; • the status of competitive products, including current and potential generics; • the results, costs and timing of our research and development activities, regulatory approvals and product launches; • our ability to reduce our costs in the event product demand is less than expected, or regulatory approvals are delayed or more expensive than expected; • the number of products we acquire or in-license; • the actual amount of Colazal returns we receive compared to our current estimates; and • our ability to maintain our current credit facility. We believe that we will be able to return to a positive cash flow position without requiring additional capital based on our current projections. However these projections may change due to changes in the factors discussed above, or other factors. If we need additional capital, we might seek additional debt or equity financing or both to fund our operations or acquisitions. If we incur more debt, we might be restricted in our ability to raise additional capital and might be subject to financial and restrictive covenants. If we issued additional equity, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We might also enter into additional collaborative arrangements that could provide us with additional funding in the form of equity, debt, licensing, milestone and/or royalty payments. We might not be able to enter into such arrangements or raise any additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. Our common stock is likely to decrease in value if the market believes that we will be unable to return to profitability, or that we will be required to raise additional capital. Our credit facility contains various representations, warranties and affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. The financial covenants include a leverage test and a fixed charge test. We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2007. However, based on our current projections for 2008, we could fall out of compliance with the financial covenants at some point during 2008, unless we obtain a waiver or amend the facility, which we are discussing with the lender. In the event a waiver or amendment is not obtained, the $15.0 million currently outstanding on the credit facility would be immediately due if one or more of the covenants are violated. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future sales of Xifaxan and our other marketed products might be less than expected. We currently market and sell nine primary products, with a majority of our historical revenue derived from sales of Colazal. We expect Xifaxan, which was launched in mid-2004, OsmoPrep, which we acquired in connection with our acquisition of InKine in September 2005, and MoviPrep, which we acquired from Norgine in December 2005, to be growing and significant sources of revenue in the future. If sales of our marketed products decline or if we experience product returns significantly in excess of estimated amounts recorded, particularly with respect to Xifaxan, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community will depend upon a number of factors including: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, such as the launch of Lialda, and including any generic or over-the-counter competitors; • perceptions by physicians and other members of the healthcare community regarding the safety and efficacy of the products; • price increases, and the price of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • patient and physician demand; • adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or other drugs in our class; • the results of product development efforts for new indications; • the scope and timing of additional marketing approvals and favorable reimbursement programs for expanded uses; • availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the products; and • our success in getting other companies to distribute our products outside of the U.S. gastroenterology market. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part on our success in in-licensing or acquiring additional pharmaceutical products. We currently intend to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products, like vapreotide acetate, that have been developed beyond the initial discovery phase and for which late-stage human clinical data is already available, or like Pepcid Oral Suspension, that have already received regulatory approval. These kinds of pharmaceutical products might not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we might incur significant additional expense in connection with the development and, if approved by the FDA, marketing of these products. In addition, our license agreement with Alfa Wassermann provides that we may not promote, distribute or sell any antibiotic product that competes with Xifaxan in the United States and Canada until mid-2009, thereby limiting our ability to acquire, develop or market other antibiotic products. Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our products. Development of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. This regulation could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell our product candidates, including specifically granulated mesalamine, metoclopramide-Zydis and balsalazide disodium tablets, our product candidates that are farthest along in the regulatory approval process. As an example, FDA approval of MoviPrep was delayed from May until August 2006 to resolve regulatory issues, and in early 2008, the FDA announced that because of its large workload it might not meet its target dates to respond to NDA submissions. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: • the drug is not effective; • patients experience severe side effects during treatment; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • appropriate patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected, as has been the case with our Xifaxan Phase III trial in Thailand for the prevention of travelers’ diarrhea; • drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or • we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. We are developing granulated mesalamine and balsalazide disodium tablets as treatments for ulcerative colitis and vapreotide acetate as a treatment for acute esophageal variceal bleeding, as well as studying Xifaxan for other indications. The FDA may never approve these compounds in these indications, which would mean we cannot market these compounds for use in these indications. Regulatory approval, even if granted, might entail ongoing requirements or restrictions on marketing that could increase our expenses and limit revenue. Approval might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies, or limit how or to whom we can sell our products. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, such as with Colazal, Xifaxan Visicol, OsmoPrep, and MoviPrep, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them might increase our expenses, impair our ability to effectively market our products, and limit our revenue. Failure to comply with manufacturing regulation could harm us financially and could hurt our reputation. We and our third-party manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products, and they are subject to additional FDA inspection. Manufacturing regulations can increase our expenses and delay production, either of which could reduce our margins. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including: • delays, warning letters and fines; • product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; • refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; • total or partial suspension of production; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional testing or changes in labeling of the product. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection. The intellectual property rights protecting our products might not afford us with meaningful protection from generic and other competition. In addition, because our strategy is to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products which typically have been discovered and initially researched by others, future products might have limited or no remaining patent protection due to the time elapsed since their discovery. Competitors could also design around any of our intellectual property or otherwise design competitive products that do not infringe our intellectual property. Any litigation that we become involved in to enforce intellectual property rights could result in substantial cost to us. In addition, claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could be costly. Our patent or other 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements proprietary rights related to our products might conflict with the current or future intellectual property rights of others. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, might be necessary to defend any patents to which we have rights and our other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of patent and intellectual property claims is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling one or more of our products. We might not be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology that we require to conduct our business, or, if obtainable, that technology might not be available at a reasonable cost. Upon patent expiration, our drugs could be subject to generic competition, which could negatively affect our pricing and sales volume. As noted above in “Future sales of Colazal will be significantly less than historical sales due to the approval of three generic competitors,” this has already happened to balsalazide capsules. Patent applications relating to rifaxamin compositions and related chemical substances were filed together with Alfa Wasserman and issued in May 2006. This patent extends patent coverage to 2024. In January 2007, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued a patent covering composition of matter and kit claims for MoviPrep. The MoviPrep patent provides coverage to September 2024. The patent for Visicol and OsmoPrep will expire in 2013. Additional patent protection is being sought for OsmoPrep that, if approved, will provide patent coverage to 2024. The patent for the treatment of the intestinal tract with the granulated mesalamine product will provide patent coverage to 2018. The patent for Sanvar expired in 2006; however, we will be applying for patent Term Restoration. There is no assurance that these patents or the patent term restoration will be issued or granted, respectively. Patent expiration dates listed herein, unless otherwise noted, are for U.S. patents and assume there are no patent term adjustments, extensions or other adverse events that could affect the term or scope of a patent. Rifaximin is a new chemical entity and was granted a five-year new chemical entity exclusivity by the FDA when it was approved in May 2004. Rifaximin, therefore, has data exclusivity to May 2009. Similarly, Sanvar is a new chemical entity and will be entitled to data exclusivity for five years beginning from the date of the approval of our NDA. In June and September 2007 we submitted additional Supplements to our Citizen Petition originally filed in April 2005, requesting the director of the Office of Generic Drugs of the Food and Drug Administration adopt guidance applicable to orally administered, locally-acting gastrointestinal drug products prior to approval of any generic versions of such drugs. The FDA rejected our Citizens Petition and all Supplemental filings in December 2007, allowing the three generic versions of balsalazide capsules to be approved and making additional generic versions of our products easier to approve that we had hoped. Because Azasan, Anusol-HC and Proctocort are mature products there are no patents or data exclusivity rights available, which subjects us to greater risk of generic competition for those products. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with collaborative partners, employees and consultants. These agreements might be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently developed by others. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We might be subjected to product liability claims that arise through the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Although we currently maintain liability coverage for both clinical trials and the commercialization of our products, it is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to satisfy any liabilities that may arise. In the future, we might not be able to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or might be unable to obtain adequate coverage at all. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Intense competition might render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in our business is intense and characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Technological developments by competitors, regulatory approval for marketing competitive products, including potential generic or over-the-counter products, or superior marketing resources possessed by competitors could adversely affect the commercial potential of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We believe that there are numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including large well-known pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research groups throughout the world, engaged in research and development efforts with respect to pharmaceutical products targeted at gastrointestinal diseases and conditions addressed by our current and potential products. In particular, we are aware of products in research or development by competitors that address the diseases being targeted by our products. Developments by others might render our current and potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competitors might be able to complete the development and regulatory approval process sooner and, therefore, market their products earlier than we can. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and development capabilities than we do. For example, many large, well-capitalized companies already offer products in the United States and Europe that target the indications for: • Colazal, including Asacol (Proctor & Gamble), sulfasalazine (Pfizer), Dipentum (UCB Pharma Inc.), Pentasa (Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, plc), once-a-day Lialda (Shire), and three generic balsalazide capsule products; • Xifaxan as approved (travelers’ diarrhea), including ciprofloxacin, commonly known as Cipro (Bayer AG); • Visicol, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, including Colyte, Golytely, Halflytely, and Nulytely (Braintree) and Trilyte (Schwarz Pharma) and Fleets Phospho-Soda; and • Xifaxan under development, including Lotronex® (Prometheus) and Zelnorm® (Novartis) for IBS. In addition, other products are in research or development by competitors that address the diseases and diagnostic procedures being targeted by these and our other products. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our ability to derive revenues will suffer. Our success will depend in part on the extent to which government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors will pay for our products. Reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products is uncertain. In the United States and elsewhere, third-party payors, such as Medicaid, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the United States, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been proposed in recent years. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts, including those relating to Medicaid payments, might have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could increase costs and reduce or eliminate profit margins. Third-party insurance coverage might not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products might be reduced. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products. We have limited experience and capabilities in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We do not generally expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of products, but instead contract with others for these services. A limited number of manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our marketed products and our product candidates. We might fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or might contract with manufacturers on terms that may not be entirely acceptable to us. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: • the manufacture of products might be difficult to scale up when required and result in delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • some of our contracts contain purchase commitments that require us to make minimum purchases that might exceed needs or limit the ability to negotiate with other manufacturers, which might increase costs; • the cost of manufacturing certain products might make them prohibitively expensive; • delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change in manufacturers could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; • manufacturers are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by the third-party manufacturers; and • if we need to change manufacturers, FDA and comparable foreign regulators would require new testing and compliance inspections and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in the processes necessary for the production of our products. Our results of operations might fluctuate from period to period, and a failure to meet the expectations of investors or the financial community at large could result in a decline in our stock price. Our results of operations might fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis due to, among other factors: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • the level of revenue generated by commercialized products, including potential increased purchases of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of potential price increases or introductions of new dosages or bottle sizes, and subsequent lower than expected revenue as the inventory is used; • the timing of any up-front payments that might be required in connection with any future acquisition of product rights; • the timing of milestone payments that might be required to our current or future licensors; • fluctuations in our development and other costs in connection with ongoing product development programs; • the level of marketing and other expenses required in connection with product launches and ongoing product growth; • the timing of the acquisition and integration of businesses, assets, products and technologies; and • general and industry-specific business and economic conditions. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile and might continue to be, making owning our stock risky. Between January 1, 2005 and March 10, 2008, the price of a share of our common stock varied from a low of $5.53 to a high of $22.79, as adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split effected in July 2004. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the performance of particular companies, as a result of the current credit crisis. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in the past been and can in the future be expected to be especially volatile. Announcements of prescription trends, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, generic approvals, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, might have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Antitakeover provisions could discourage a takeover that stockholders consider to be in their best interests or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a number of provisions that could have antitakeover effects or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a stockholder protection rights plan, commonly referred to as a 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements poison pill. The rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights plan will not prevent an acquisition that is approved by our board of directors. We believe our rights plan assisted in our successful defense against a hostile takeover bid earlier in 2003. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to determine the terms of up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and issue them without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, voting control in order to remove our current directors and management. Our bylaws also eliminate the ability of the stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting or make proposals at stockholder meetings without giving us advance written notice, which could hinder the ability of stockholders to quickly take action that might be opposed by management. These provisions could make more difficult the removal of current directors and management or a takeover of Salix, even if these events could be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 