Item 1A. Risk Factors. The purchase of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before you invest you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. If any of the following events actually occurs, our financial condition or operating results may be materially and adversely affected, our business may be severely impaired, and the price of our common stock may decline, perhaps significantly. This means you could lose all or a part of your investment. 12 We cannot assure you that any business we acquire will benefit from its acquisition by us. We cannot assure you that any benefits to the business of AIM, Sigma Metals, Welding Metallurgy or any other entities that we acquire will be achieved from their acquisition by us or by our status as a public company, or that the results of operations of AIM, Sigma Metals, Welding Metallurgy or such other acquired entities will not be adversely impacted by their acquisition by us. The process of combining the organizations of private companies into a public company such as ours may cause fundamental changes to their businesses or in their operations. The past performance of AIM, Sigma Metals, Welding Metallurgy or any other entity that we acquire is not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Future performance may be adversely affected as a result of the integration of the acquired business into our organization and the significant increase in expenses relating to financial statement preparation and compliance with controls and procedures standards established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The terms of the financing we obtain, if any, to acquire the Blair Companies may not be favorable to our current stockholders. On November 15, 2007, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with the shareholders of Blair Industries, Inc., a New York corporation, Blair Accumulators, Inc., a New York corporation, H.S.M. Machine Works, Inc., a New York corporation, and H.S.M. Machine Works, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (collectively, the "Blair Companies") to acquire all of the outstanding capital stock of the Blair Companies. We will need to raise funds to complete the acquisition of the Blair Companies. We are currently working with a lender which is considering lending us sufficient debt to complete this acquisition. Although this lender is continuing its due diligence, we cannot assure you that this lender will provide financing to complete the acquisition. In the current economic environment, the terms on which financing to acquire the Blair Companies may be made available to us, if it is available, may not be favorable to us or our current shareholders. Our inability to successfully manage the growth of our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect to experience growth in the number of employees and the scope of our operations as a result of internal growth and acquisitions. This could result in increased responsibilities for management. Our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to manage successfully the expansion of our operations. Our ability to manage and support our growth effectively will be substantially dependent on our ability to implement adequate improvements to financial, inventory, management controls, reporting, union relationships, order entry systems and other procedures, and hire sufficient numbers of financial, accounting, administrative, and management personnel. We may not succeed in our efforts to identify, attract and retain experienced accounting and financial personnel. Our future success also depends on our ability to address potential market opportunities and to manage expenses to match our ability to finance operations. The need to control our expenses will place a significant strain on our management and operational resources. If we are unable to control our expenses effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The failure to integrate a business or business segment we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we expect to acquire assets and businesses relating to or complementary to our operations. These acquisitions will involve risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things, exposure to unknown liabilities of the acquired companies, additional acquisition costs and unanticipated expenses. Our quarterly and annual operating results will fluctuate due to the costs and expenses of acquiring and integrating new businesses. We may also experience difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses. Our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's time and attention diverted from existing operations. Our acquisition strategy will likely require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. We cannot assure you that any future acquisition will be consummated, or that if consummated, that we will be able to integrate such acquisition successfully. 13 Any reduction in government spending on defense could materially adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with programs that are subject to appropriation by Congress, which could be potential targets for reductions in funding to pay for other programs. Future reductions in United States Government spending on defense or future changes in the kind of defense products required by United States Government agencies could limit demand for our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, potential shifts in responsibilities and functions within the defense and intelligence communities could result in a reduction of orders for defense products by segments of the defense industry that have historically been our major customers. As a result, demand for our products could decline, resulting in a decrease in revenues and materially adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts and acts of war may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. United States and global responses to the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats, and other global crises and responses thereto, may adversely affect the Company. While some of our products may experience greater demand as a result of increased U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could realign U.S. Government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs and those of our customers. U.S. Government spending could shift to defense programs in which we and our customers do not participate. Given the current Middle East and global situation, U.S. defense spending is generally expected to remain high over the next several years. Increased defense spending does not necessarily correlate to increased business, because not all the programs in which we participate or have current capabilities may be earmarked for increased funding. Terrorist acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We depend on revenues from a few significant relationships, in particular with Sikorsky Aircraft, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or interruption in these relationships could harm our business. In general, we have derived a material portion of our revenues from one or a limited number of customers. We expect that in future periods we may enter into contracts with customers which represent a significant concentration of our revenues. If such contracts were terminated, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. One customer accounted for approximately 46% of our consolidated sales during the year ended December 31, 2007. Any adverse change in our relationship with Sikorsky could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that our customer concentration will not change significantly in the near future. The markets in which we sell our products are dominated by a relatively small number of customers who have contracts with United States government agencies, thereby limiting the number of potential customers. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers or that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our products in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or interruption in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may have to make, could significantly harm our business. 14 Continued competition in our markets may lead to a reduction in our revenues. The defense and aerospace component manufacturing market is highly competitive and we expect that competition will increase. Current competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we do. We expect that more companies will enter the defense and aerospace component manufacturing market. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Increased competition could result in reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which could significantly harm our business. Our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of performance. Some of the factors that could cause quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include conditions inherent in government contracting and our business such as the timing of cost and expense recognition for contracts, the United States Government contracting and budget cycles, introduction of new government regulations and standards, contract closeouts, variations in manufacturing efficiencies, our ability to obtain components and subassemblies from contract manufacturers and suppliers, general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the defense market. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly results, competition or announcements of extraordinary events such as acquisitions or litigation may cause earnings to fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. In addition, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained for our common stock. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock, as well as our overall operating results. We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs. Although we procure most of our parts and components from multiple sources or believe that these components are readily available from numerous sources, certain components are available only from sole sources or from a limited number or sources. While we believe that substitute components or assemblies could be obtained, use of substitutes would require development of new suppliers or would require us to re-engineer our products, or both, which could delay shipment of our products and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Attracting and retaining key personnel is an essential element of our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate executive and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. Attracting and retaining skilled workers and qualified sales representatives is also critical to us. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the defense and aerospace industries are in demand and competition for their talents is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness may affect operations. As described under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources", we have significant indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged and our indebtedness is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity. Our 15 ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on future performance. In addition, our loan facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets. In the case of a continuing default under either of our loan facilities, the lender will have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Payment of principal and interest may limit our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the documents governing our loans prohibit the payment of cash dividends in certain situations. Our leverage may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and may make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic conditions. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete an acquisition, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. We may issue our securities to acquire companies or businesses. Most likely, we will issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or both, to complete acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or shares of our preferred stock, the equity interest of our existing stockholders may be reduced significantly, and the market price of our common stock may decrease. The shares of preferred stock we issue are likely to provide holders with dividend, liquidation and voting rights, and may include participation rights, senior to, and more favorable than, the rights and powers of holders of our common stock. We may issue our debt securities to complete an acquisition, and if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy the debt service associated with that indebtedness, our inability to do so may force us to sell assets and restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or place onerous restrictions on our operations. If we issue debt securities as part of an acquisition, and we are unable to generate sufficient operating revenues to pay the principal amount and accrued interest on that debt, we may be forced to sell all or a significant portion of our assets to satisfy our debt service obligations, unless we are able to refinance or negotiate an extension of our payment obligation. Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations as they become due, the holders of that debt may accelerate payment if we fail to comply with, and/or are unable to obtain waivers of, covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios or reserves or satisfy certain other financial restrictions. In addition, the covenants in the loan agreements may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in operating our business. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for acquisitions, we may not be able to consummate an acquisition with growth potential, if at all. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. We may be unable to obtain financing, if required, to complete an acquisition or to fund the operations and growth of any business acquired, which could compel us to abandon a particular prospective acquisition. If we require financing to complete an acquisition, that financing may not be available in amounts and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. To the extent that financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, we may require financing to fund the operations or growth of the business acquired. Our inability to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our business. If our Board of Directors implements the reverse stock split, we cannot assure you that the total market capitalization of our common stock after the reverse stock split will be equal to or greater than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split or that the per share market price of our common stock following the reverse stock split will either exceed or remain higher than the pre-split per share market price. 16 We cannot assure you that if our Board implements a reverse stock split, that the market price per new share of common stock after the reverse stock split will rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of old shares of common stock outstanding before the reverse stock split. For example, based on the closing market price of our common stock on March 26, 2008 of $0.21 per share, if the Board decided to implement a reverse stock split and selected a reverse stock split ratio of one-for-fifteen, we cannot assure you that the post-split market price of our common stock would be $3.15 per share. Alternatively, if the Board decided to implement a reverse stock split and selected a reverse stock split ratio of one-for-thirty we cannot assure you that the post-split market price of our common stock would be $6.30 per share. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our common stock after the reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split and, in the future, the market price of our common stock following the reverse stock split may not exceed or remain higher than the market price prior to the reverse stock split. In many cases, the total market capitalization of a company following a reverse stock split is lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. A decline in the market price for our common stock after the reverse stock split may result in a greater percentage decline than would occur in the absence of a reverse stock split, and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected following a reverse stock split. The market price of our common stock will be based on our performance and other factors, some of which are unrelated to the number of shares outstanding. If the reverse stock split is effected and the market price of our common stock declines, the percentage decline as an absolute number and as a percentage of our overall market capitalization may be greater than would occur in the absence of a reverse stock split. In many cases, both the total market capitalization and the market price of a share of a company's common stock following a reverse stock split are lower than they were before the reverse stock split. Furthermore, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split. There is only a limited public market for our securities. The trading market for our common stock is limited and conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our common stock is very thinly traded. We cannot assure you that a more active trading market in our common stock will ever develop, or if one does develop, that it will be sustained. We also cannot assure you that our common stock will ever become eligible for listing on Nasdaq or a stock exchange. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time our net tangible assets are $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules under the Securities Exchange Act. If our common stock falls within the definition of penny stock it will become subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000, or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 or $300,000, together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's prior written consent to the transaction. Additionally, for any transaction, other than exempt transactions, involving a penny stock, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market. These rules also may cause fewer broker-dealers to be willing to make a market in our common stock, and it may affect the level of news coverage we receive. 17 Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock, pursuant to a registration statement or Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. A high proportion of our issued and outstanding shares, including those issuable upon conversion of our series B convertible preferred stock, are eligible for sale under the provisions of Rule 144 that do not limit the amount of shares that may be sold by a holder. The number of our shares available for sale is enormous relative to the trading volume of our shares. Any attempt to sell a substantial number of our shares will severely depress the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may use our capital stock in the future to finance acquisitions and to compensate employees and management, which will further dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could eventually significantly depress the trading price of our common stock. 