Item 1A. Risk Factors The purchase of our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. The Purchase of our Series B Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred") and our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. Before you invest, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. If any of the following events actually occurs, our financial condition or operating results may be materially and adversely affected, our business may be severely impaired, and the price of our common stock may decline, perhaps significantly. This means you could lose all or a part of your investment. Our indebtedness may materially adversely affect our operations. As is more fully described under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources", we have significant indebtedness. We are highly leveraged and our indebtedness is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity. Our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on future performance. In addition, our loan facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets. In the case of a continuing default under either of our loan facilities, the lender will have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Payment of principal and interest may limit our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the documents governing our loans prohibit the payment of cash dividends in certain situations. Our leverage may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and may make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic conditions. 11 Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to fulfill our obligations under our existing indebtedness, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2008, we had total liabilities of approximately $33.7 million, including $15.8 million payable to our bank lenders secured by substantially all our assets. Our interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $ 2.6 million, including amortization of debt discount costs of approximately $579,000. The Company's senior bank debt matures in April 2010, and its subordinated bank debt in August 2010. There can be no assurance that the Company's lenders will agree to extend their loans and, in the absence of significant improvement in the Company's results of operations it is not likely that the Company will be able to refinance its bank indebtedness with another lender. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences for our creditors, For example, it could: o make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such other indebtedness; o require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; o increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; o limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the aerospace industry; operate; o limit our junior subordinated note holders' rights to receive payments under the notes if secured creditors have not been paid; or; o limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other corporate purposes. Risks Related to Our Issuance of Series B Preferred in Lieu of Payment of Cash Dividends on Series B Preferred Dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock are payable either in cash or "in kind"; that is by issuing additional shares of Series B Preferred. Payment of dividends by issuing additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock will reduce the equity interest and voting power of our common stockholders and reduce the amount available for distribution to holders of our common stock, if any, upon our liquidation and dissolution. Due to liquidity constraints and restrictions on paying dividends in our bank loan covenants, we have issued and expect to continue to issue additional shares of our Series B Preferred in lieu of payment of cash dividends. The issuance of the shares of Series B Preferred in lieu of payment of cash dividends will dilute the equity interest of our common stockholders upon conversion of the Series B Preferred. Since holders of Series B Preferred vote together with holders of our common stock on matters presented to stockholders for approval not requiring a class vote, with holders of Series B Preferred having a number of votes equal to the number of whole shares of common stock they may acquire upon conversion of the Series B Preferred as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote on those matters, the number and percentage of total votes which may be cast by holders of Series B Preferred with respect to those matters will increase and thereby dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock in lieu of cash dividends on the Series B Preferred will increase the total liquidation preference of the holders of the Series B Preferred, thereby decreasing amounts available for distribution to common stockholders, if any, upon a liquidation and dissolution of our company. Our high level of debt may make it more difficult to retain existing or to attract new customers: Our existing customers and potential new customers for our products may be concerned that our high level of debt may impair our ability to satisfactorily perform on long-term contracts. 12 Our inability to successfully manage the growth of our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect to experience growth in the number of employees and the scope of our operations as a result of internal growth. This could result in increased responsibilities for management. Our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to manage successfully the expansion of operations. Our ability to manage and support our growth effectively will be substantially dependent on our ability to implement adequate improvements to financial, inventory, management controls, reporting, union relationships, order entry systems and other procedures, and hire sufficient numbers of financial, accounting, administrative, and management personnel. We may not succeed in our efforts to identify, attract and retain experienced personnel. Our future success also depends on our ability to address potential market opportunities and to manage expenses to match our ability to finance operations. The need to control our expenses will place a significant strain on our management and operational resources. If we are unable to control our expenses effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have disclosed the existence of a material weakness in internal control and this is more fully described in paragraph (b) of Item 9A "Policies & Procedures" below. Any reduction in government spending on defense could materially adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with programs that are subject to appropriation by Congress, which could be potential targets for reductions in funding for whatever reason. Future reductions in United States Government spending on defense or future changes in the kind of defense products required by United States Government agencies could limit demand for our products, and may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts and acts of war may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. United States and global responses to the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats, and other global crises and responses thereto, may adversely affect the Company. While some of our products may experience greater demand as a result of increased U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could realign U.S. Government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs and those of our customers. U.S. Government spending could shift to defense programs in which we and our customers do not participate. Increased defense spending does not necessarily correlate to increased business, because not all the programs in which we participate or have current capabilities may be earmarked for increased funding. Terrorist acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We depend on revenues from a few significant relationships, in particular with Sikorsky Aircraft, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or interruption in these relationships could harm our business. We derive most of our revenues from a small number of customers. In 2008, our top three customers accounted for 71% of revenue. It is likely that this concentration of customers will continue. If such contracts were terminated, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. One customer accounted for approximately 49% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 47% for the first six months of 2009. 13 Any adverse change in our relationship with Sikorsky could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that our customer concentration will not change significantly in the near future. The markets in which we sell our products are dominated by a relatively small number of customers who have contracts with United States governmental agencies, thereby limiting the number of potential customers. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers or that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our products in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or interruption in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may have to make, could significantly harm our business. Continued competition in our markets may lead to a reduction in our revenues and market share. The defense and aerospace component manufacturing market is highly competitive and we expect that competition will increase. Many competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we do. We expect that more companies will enter the defense and aerospace component manufacturing market. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Increased competition could result in reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which could significantly harm our business. Our future revenues are inherently unpredictable; our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of performance. Some of the factors that could cause quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include conditions inherent in government contracting and our business such as the timing of cost and expense recognition for contracts, the United States Government contracting and budget cycles, introduction of new government regulations and standards, contract closeouts, variations in manufacturing efficiencies, our ability to obtain components and subassemblies from contract manufacturers and suppliers, general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the defense market. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly results, competition or announcements of extraordinary events such as acquisitions or litigation may cause earnings to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. In addition, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained for our common stock. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock, as well as our overall operating results. We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs. Although we procure most of our parts and components from multiple sources or believe that these components are readily available from numerous sources, certain components are available only from sole sources or from a limited number or sources. While we believe that substitute components or assemblies could be obtained, use of substitutes would require development of new suppliers or would require us to re-engineer our products, or both, which could delay shipment of our products and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Attracting and retaining key personnel is an essential element of our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate executive and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. Attracting and retaining skilled workers and qualified sales representatives is also critical to us. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the defense and aerospace industries are in demand and competition for their talents is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Other Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own substantially all of our assets and conduct all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness Restrictions imposed by our senior secured credit facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities restrict us and our subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. These covenants restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to: o incur additional indebtedness; o pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or indebtedness; o make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; o create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries; o sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; o consolidate or merge; o create liens; or; o enter into sale and lease-back transactions. In the event of a default under any of our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Our lender maintains a lock box whereby our receipts are deposited directly into an account controlled by the lender. Consequently, our ability to direct our funds to parties other than our lender is compromised. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. 15 In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. There is only a very limited public market for our securities. The trading market for our common stock is limited and conducted on the Pink Sheets. It is unlikely that we will be able to have our common stock will ever become eligible for listing on NASDAQ or another stock exchange. We cannot assure you that a more active trading market in our common stock will ever develop or if one does develop, that it will be sustained. Our common stock may be subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, if so, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules under the Securities Exchange Act, and subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000, or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 or $300,000, together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's prior written consent to the transaction. Additionally, for any transaction, other than exempt transactions, involving a penny stock, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market. These rules also may cause fewer broker-dealers to be willing to make a market in our common stock, and it may affect the level of news coverage we receive. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock pursuant Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Under Rule 144, shares of common stock issued or issuable upon conversion of securities sold in private offerings are eligible for resale by non-affiliates after six months, assuming we file reports under the Exchange Act containing current information about us, and after one year regardless of whether current information about us is available. The number of shares eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 is enormous relative to the trading volume of our common stock. However, it is unlikely that shares of our Series B Preferred Stock will be converted, or our outstanding warrants and options will be exercised, unless and until the market price of our common stock increases significantly. Any attempt to sell a substantial number of our shares will severely depress the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may use our capital stock in the future to finance acquisitions and to compensate employees and management, which will further dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could eventually significantly depress the trading price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock, or the possible issuance of shares, under our stock option plan may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, and the issuance of shares under the plan will decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to existing holders of our common stock and dilute their voting power. 16 Our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan allows for the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock, either as stock grants or options, to employees, officers, directors, advisors and consultants of the company. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding under the Plan options to purchase 6,522,764 shares. The committee administering the Plan, which has sole authority and discretion to grant options under the Plan, may grant options which become immediately exercisable in the event of a change in control of our company and in the event of certain mergers and reorganizations. The issuance of shares of our common stock, or the possible issuance of shares, under our stock option plan may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, and the issuance of shares under the plan will decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to existing holders of our common stock and dilute their voting power. 