ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the events or circumstances described below were to occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We have organized our Risk Factors under captions that we believe describe various categories of potential risk. For your convenience, we have not duplicated risk factors that could be considered to be included in more than one category. Risks Related to the Haemonetics Offer and the Merger The delay or failure to consummate the Offer or the Merger with Haemonetics could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. On January 31, 2010, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Haemonetics and Acquisition Sub. On February 19, 2010, Acquisition Sub commenced the Offer. The Offer is conditioned on the tender of a majority of the outstanding shares of Global Med Common Stock and Global Med Preferred Stock and other customary conditions. Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including, but not limited to, consummation of the Offer, and, if required under applicable law, approval of the Merger Agreement by our stockholders. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that the Offer or the Merger will be successfully consummated as currently contemplated under the Merger Agreement or at all. As a result of the pending Offer and Merger: • the attention of our management and our employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on consummating the Merger; • the Merger Agreement places a variety of restrictions and constraints on the conduct of our business outside of the ordinary course prior to the closing of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement; 8 Table of Contents • the pending Offer and the Merger may generate uncertainty among our customers; and • our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the Merger, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. A delay in the consummation of the Offer or the Merger may exacerbate the occurrence of these events. Furthermore, in the event that the Offer or the Merger is not completed: • our stockholders will not receive the consideration that Haemonetics has agreed to pay pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and our stock price may decline; • we have incurred and will incur significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the Offer and Merger; and • under some circumstances, we may be required to pay a $2.6 million breakup fee to Haemonetics and reimburse Haemonetics for its expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement up to $500,000 in the aggregate The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. A purported stockholder class action lawsuit has been filed against Global Med, Haemonetics, Acquisition Sub and members of our Board of Directors and certain officers challenging the Merger Agreement and seeking a temporary restraining order to enjoin the Offer. On February 9, 2010 and February 17, 2010, Global Med, Acquisition Sub, Haemonetics and the Individual Defendants were named as defendants in three purported class action lawsuits. On March 9, 2010, the plaintiffs jointly filed an amended class action complaint against the Defendants and on March 10, 2010 the court entered an order consolidating the three actions. These actions allege, among other things, that the Individuals breached their fiduciary duties to Global Med’s stockholders, that the bidding mechanism was inadequate, and that the Individuals failed to take reasonable steps to maximize the value realizable for the shares of common stock. The plaintiffs seek, among other relief: (1) injunctive relief against Acquisition Sub’s acquisition of the Company’s shares through its cash tender offer; (2) monetary and/or rescissory damages; and (3) costs of the action, including the fees and expenses of attorneys and experts. On March 10, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to seek a temporary restraining order to enjoin the Offer. An unfavorable outcome in this lawsuit, including the granting of the temporary restraining order, could prevent or delay the consummation of the Offer or the Merger. While the Company believes that these actions are without merit and plans to vigorously defend against them, an unfavorable result in this litigation could be costly to Global Med and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and stock price. See the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of this lawsuit. Risks Related to Our Business Our reported revenue and operating results may fluctuate widely due to irregular sales cycles, contract terms and the application of accounting rules. The sales cycle for our products, which is the period of time between the identification of a potential customer and completion of the sale, is typically lengthy and subject to a number of factors over which we have little control, such as our customers’ budgeting constraints and approval processes. Our revenue can fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on our customers’ buying decisions. In addition, our ability to recognize revenue from software sales can be impacted by contract terms and the application of accounting rules for revenue recognition to contracts that include deliverable and non-deliverable software products, services for modification or customization of our software, acceptance criteria and other contingencies. We are dependent on major channel partners to sell our products into certain markets. Our medical software products and services are sold through our direct sales force and through our 15 channel partners, most of which are engaged in the sale and marketing of laboratory information systems. Our direct sales force tends to 9 Table of Contents focus on blood donation centers, plasma centers, transfusion centers and hospitals that are purchasing a new blood management information system, replacing antiquated technology or sunsetted products, or upgrading their current system. We typically rely on our channel partners to reach potential customers who are purchasing a comprehensive LIS, including a blood management information system. One of our channel partners accounted for 9.1% and 14.5% of our revenue during 2009 and 2008, respectively, and our operating results may be adversely affected if we do not maintain such relationships. We may not be able to realize our sales backlog as expected which could reduce our revenue and operating results. As of December 31, 2009 our sales backlog of unrecognized revenue totaled $9.553 million. While this amount represents contracted sales for which revenue has not been recognized, we may ultimately not be able to realize the revenue as expected if our customer delays the project, or cancels the order, or is otherwise unable to move forward or if we are unable to complete the project for any reason. Our recurring maintenance revenue could be reduced if we fail to meet service requirements. During the year ended December 31, 2009, annual maintenance fees represented over 55% of our revenue. Our maintenance agreements range in term from single year to multi-year agreements. Maintenance consists of product bug fixes, continued regulatory compliance, and product updates. If we fail to continue to meet our maintenance commitments, a significant portion of our revenues could be at risk which could reduce our revenue and operating results. Our results are vulnerable to general economic conditions. Worsening general economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession could adversely affect our operating results if our customers decide to delay or cancel plans to purchase, upgrade or support their healthcare management information systems. In an economic slowdown, we may also experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer turnover, reductions in customer consulting service requirements and a decline in our customers’ credit worthiness. Our cash flows from operations may fluctuate widely from quarter to quarter and our revenue and cash receipts may not be sufficient to meet the operating needs of our business. The operating cash flows of our Inlog subsidiary are highly seasonal as the majority of its annual maintenance and support fees are billed and collected during the first quarter, while the fourth quarter is characterized by annual cash outflows for taxes and mandated employee-related payments. Consequently, Inlog’s cash flows tend to be the highest during the first half of the year and the lowest during the second half of the year. Due to Inlog’s significance, our consolidated cash flows from operations are expected to follow this pattern. In addition, our consolidated revenue and cash receipts may not be sufficient to meet our operating needs and other obligations. If this were to be the case, we may need to take action to reduce our operating costs or take other measures to increase or maintain our liquidity. There is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to provide adequate cash flow to expand our business or continue to operate at our current levels. In addition, the Company is incurring significant costs associated with its acquisition by Haemonetics and in the defense of the purported class action lawsuits that were filed after the announcement of the Merger Agreement. As provided for in the Merger Agreement, there are certain conditions under which Haemonetics could cancel the Merger Agreement and the Company would be required to pay a $2.6 million breakup fee to Haemonetics and reimburse Haemonetics for its expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement up to $500,000 in the aggregate. If the Offer and the Merger are not consummated, the foregoing costs and expenses could materially and adversely impact the Company’s liquidity and could, under certain circumstances, result in the violation of certain debt covenants and acceleration of the Company’s debt obligations, or the Company could be required to raise outside financing to meet its operating and liquidity needs. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient cash to operate our business, may have to forego strategic acquisitions or investments, defer our product development activities, delay introduction of new products, or otherwise restructure our business and operations. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of Inlog and eDonor, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operating costs could increase even further if we are unable to successfully combine the acquired operations of Inlog and eDonor or integrate the systems and procedures including research and development, integrated sales, accounting and financial reporting, or to realize the revenue synergies we expect from the combined companies. Our pro forma combined financial results cover a period during which we were not under common control or management and, therefore, are not indicative of our future financial or operating results. Our failure to integrate Inlog and eDonor and obtain all of the expected benefits could impair our future revenue and operating results. Our business and our software products are subject to substantial competition which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. There is substantial competition in all aspects of the medical software industry. Numerous companies are developing technologies and marketing products and services in the healthcare information management area. Many competitors in the blood bank industry have received FDA clearance for their products. Many of these competitors have been in business longer and have substantially greater personnel and financial resources than Global Med which could make their products and services more attractive than ours which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Our revenue may be dependent on our ability to update and enhance our existing products and services and to develop new ones. The market for applications software is characterized by rapidly changing technology and by changes from mainframe to client/server computer technology, including frequent new product introductions and technological enhancements in the applications software business. During the last ten years, the use of computer technology in the information management industry has expanded significantly to create intense competition. With rapidly expanding technology and our limited resources, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to acquire or maintain any technological advantage. Our success will be in large part dependent on our ability to use developing technology to our maximum advantage and to remain competitive in price and product performance. If we are unable to acquire or maintain a technological advantage, or if we fail to stay current and evolve in the applications software and information management fields, we may be forced to curtail or reduce our planned expenditures which could negatively impact our business operations. We cannot be certain that our research and development activities will be successful. While we are committed to enhancing our software products and services and introducing new products, we cannot be certain that our research and development activities will be successful. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient financial resources to identify and develop new technologies and bring new products to market in a timely and cost effective manner, and we cannot ensure that any such products will be commercially successful and profitable if and when they are introduced. We depend significantly upon our intellectual property rights and the failure to protect our rights could reduce our revenue and/or increase our operating costs. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for our technology and software, both in the United States and in other countries. Our proprietary software is protected by the use of copyrights, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and license agreements that restrict the unauthorized distribution of our proprietary data and limit our software products to the customer’s internal use only. In addition, we have obtained a patent for our SafeTrace Tx product. While we have attempted to limit unauthorized use of our software products or the dissemination of our proprietary information, we may not be able to retain our proprietary software rights and prohibit the unauthorized use of proprietary information. Any patents, copyrights, or trademarks we have or may obtain may not be sufficiently broad to protect our products, may be subject to challenge, invalidated or circumvented and may not provide competitive advantages. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior. If our software products infringe upon the rights of others, we may be subject to suit for damages or an injunction to cease the use of such products. Our industry is characterized by frequent intellectual 11 Table of Contents property litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights. Although we are not aware of any intellectual property claims against us, we may be a party to litigation in the future that could force us to reduce our planned expenditures which could negatively impact our business operations. For example, on April 25, 2008, we received a letter from our patent counsel stating that a third party, Mediware, has filed for a reexamination of our issued patent. We believe our patent is valid and also believe it will prevail in any reexamination. Our success also depends in part on our ability to develop commercially viable products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have not conducted freedom of use patent searches and patents may exist or could be filed which would have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products or maintain our competitive position with respect to our products. Failure to comply with government regulations and requirements could preclude us from continuing to market our existing products or introducing new products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our SafeTrace, SafeTrace Tx and ElDorado products and services are subject to regulations adopted by governmental authorities, including the FDA, which govern blood center computer software products regulated as medical devices. Compliance with government regulations can be costly and burdensome and may result in our incurring product development delays and substantial costs. In addition, modifications to such regulations could materially adversely affect the timing and cost of new products and services we introduce. We cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation. We also are required to follow applicable Good Manufacturing Practices regulations of the FDA, which include testing, control and documentation requirements, as well as similar requirements in other countries, including International Standards Organization 9001 standards. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, operating and marketing restrictions and fines, and which could reduce our revenue and operating results. We may be subject to product liability exposure. We have product liability exposure for defects in our products that may become apparent through widespread use of our products. To date, we have not had any claims filed against us involving our products and we are not aware of any material problems with them. While we will continue to attempt to take appropriate precautions, we may not be able to completely avoid product liability exposure. We maintain product liability insurance on a “claims made” basis for our products in the aggregate of at least $4 million. Although we have had a history of being able to obtain such coverage at reasonable prices, such coverage may not be available in the future, or at reasonable prices, or in amounts adequate to cover any product liabilities that we may incur. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance to cover any product liabilities that we may incur, we could incur substantial costs. In addition, any actual or perceived defect in our products could adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products, and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the demand for our products. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and if we are unable to successfully acquire or integrate these companies, we may not be able to grow our revenue. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire companies that sell software products that complement our current product mix, particularly companies focused on critical health management. We may use either equity or debt financing or our cash to make acquisitions. There is no assurance that our cash will be adequate and that equity or debt financing will be available on terms favorable to us. In the event we are not able to successfully acquire companies, we may not be able to grow our revenue. In the event we are able to acquire other companies, we may be subject to a number of risks related to the integration and management of such companies, including failure to obtain valid consents to assignment of contracts, failure of the business of the acquired company to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, and failure to retain key personnel of the acquired company. We depend on our key personnel for the success of our business and the loss of one or more key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our success and our ability to manage our business depend upon the efforts and continued service of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business 12 Table of Contents and operations as there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain senior management and key employees having competency in those substantive areas deemed important to the successful implementation of our plans. The inability to do so or any difficulties encountered by management in establishing effective working relationships among them may adversely affect our business and prospects. Currently, we do not carry key person life insurance for any of our executive management or key employees. Risks Related to International Operations We face a number of risks associated with international operations On June 26, 2008, we completed the acquisition of Inlog S.A. and its subsidiaries, including one located in Germany. We face a number of risks relating to remotely managing foreign operations including: linguistic and cultural differences; differing regulatory environments impacting our technology and our customer base; differing labor standards; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; different economic conditions; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our failure to adequately acknowledge and manage these conditions and risks could adversely impact our revenue and our operating results. We are subject to foreign exchange risks We are subject to foreign exchange risks because we report our results from operations in U.S. dollars, while our Inlog subsidiary’s revenue and expenses are denominated in Euros and converted to U.S. dollars in consolidation. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Inlog accounted for approximately 35% of our total revenue. A decrease in the value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar could affect our consolidated profitability. We currently do not hold forward exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exchange risk. Risks Related to Our Stock If “Penny Stock” regulations impose restrictions on the marketability of our common stock, the abilty of our shareholders to sell shares of our stock could be impaired. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions. Exceptions include equity securities issued by an issuer that has (i) net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for more than three years, or (ii) net tangible assets of at least $5,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years, or (iii) average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years. Our common stock is currently trading at under $5.00 per share. Although we currently fall under one of the exceptions, if at a later time we fail to meet one of the exceptions, our common stock will be considered a penny stock. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. These requirements, among others, may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to resell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Our common stockholders could face substantial potential dilution from our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and outstanding stock options, warrants, unvested restricted stock and contingently issuable shares As of March 3, 2010, we had 38.446 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock was convertible into approximately 5.500 million shares (without giving effect to limitations on conversion) and outstanding stock options, warrants, contingently issuable shares to the Inlog sellers and unvested restricted stock totaled approximately 15.882 million shares as of that date (without giving effect to limitations on conversion). Accordingly, fully-diluted shares as of March 3, 2010 totaled approximately 59.828 million shares (without giving effect to limitations on conversion). We cannot predict the actual number of shares of common stock that will be 13 Table of Contents issued upon the conversion our Series A Preferred Stock or upon the exercise of stock options and warrants however, existing common stockholders could experience significant dilution. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile which may limit our investors’ ability to actively trade their shares of our common stock The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, among other items, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. Our dividend practices are determined by our Board of Directors and may be changed from time to time. We will base any issuance of dividends upon our earnings (if any), financial condition, capital requirements, acquisition strategies, and other factors considered important by our Board of Directors. Colorado law and our Articles of Incorporation do not require our Board of Directors to declare dividends on our common stock. We expect to retain any earnings generated by our operations for the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends to our common stockholders for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 