ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Reductions in Funding for Medicare Programs and Other Provisions Under the Recent Healthcare Reform Legislation and Future Related Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Revenue and Profitability The Reform Acts made significant changes to the Medicare program and to the health insurance market overall. A number of provisions of healthcare reform legislation took effect September 23, 2010, and other provisions take effect between 2011 and 2018. Potentially adverse provisions include: · Medicare Advantage benchmarks for 2011 have been frozen at 2010 levels. Beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage benchmark rates will be phased down from current levels to levels that are between 95% and 115% of fee-for-service costs, depending on a plan’s geographic area. Plans receiving certain quality ratings by CMS will be eligible for bonus rate increases. · Rebates received by Medicare Advantage plans that “underbid” based on payment benchmarks will be reduced, with larger reductions for plans failing to receive certain quality ratings. · The Secretary of HHS is granted explicit authority to deny Medicare Advantage plan bids that propose significant increases in cost sharing or decreases in benefits. · Beginning in 2014, Medicare Advantage plans with medical loss ratios below 85% will be required to pay a rebate to the Secretary of HHS. The Secretary will halt enrollment in any plan failing to meet this ratio for three consecutive years, and terminate any plan failing to meet the ratio for five consecutive years. · Beginning January 1, 2011, cost-sharing for certain services (such as chemotherapy and skilled nursing care) will be limited to the cost-sharing permitted under traditional Medicare. · Prescription drug plans will be required to cover all drugs on a list developed by the Secretary of HHS, and the Part D subsidy for high-income beneficiaries will be reduced. Substantially all of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from the monthly premium payment from CMS that is paid to Humana. As a result, our business and results of operations are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare Advantage programs. Any changes that limit or reduce Medicare reimbursement levels, such as reductions in or limitations of reimbursement amounts or rates under programs, reductions in funding of programs, expansion of benefits without adequate funding, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Due to the Reform Acts’ recent passage, scope and complexity, the unsettled nature of the reforms and the numerous steps required to implement them, and our inability to predict or dictate how Humana, CarePlus, our customers and/or our various direct and indirect competitors will react to the Reform Acts, we believe that we have limited ability to predict the direct and indirect effects of the Reform Acts upon the Medicare Advantage industry and us. For instance, although we anticipate that we will experience a decline in per beneficiary payment rates under the Reform Acts, we also anticipate the impact of such reduction on us will be mitigated, by some indeterminate amount by some of the following factors: enhanced medical management that will reduce the cost of care, reduced plan benefit offerings, increased customer co-pays and deductibles, the potential for plan quality bonuses, improved plan risk score compliance and/or other factors. We note that, although we are seeking to implement various operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the Reform Acts, our ability to anticipate and effectuate certain initiatives is significantly restricted since we have limited ability to influence, among other things, Humana’s marketing efforts to increase enrollment in the plans that we serve, the plan benefits offered by Humana, the plan co-pays and deductibles set by Humana and/or the quality ratings received by the Humana plans that we serve. If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the Reform Acts for any reason, it is reasonably possible that our business may be materially adversely affected by the Reform Acts and related regulations. As a result, changes to Medicare Advantage health plan reimbursement rates stemming from the Reform Acts as well as newly enacted and future regulations adopted in connection therewith may negatively impact our business, revenue and profitability. In addition, the Reform Acts establish a Medicare shared savings program for Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) to take effect beginning in January 2012. Under this shared savings program, the Secretary of HHS may contract with eligible organizations, including group medical practices, to be accountable for the quality, cost and overall care of Medicare beneficiaries assigned to the ACO. Participating ACOs that meet specified quality performance standards will be eligible to share in any savings below a specified benchmark amount. The Secretary of HHS is also authorized, but not required, to use capitation payment models with ACOs. The development and expansion of ACOs has the potential to adversely impact our business, revenue and profitability. -20- There are numerous steps required to implement the Reform Acts, and Congress may seek to alter or eliminate some of the provisions described above. Numerous legal challenges have also been raised to the Reform Acts that could alter or eliminate certain provisions. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms and numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what additional health insurance reforms may be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. However, the enacted reforms as well as future legislative changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including lowering our reimbursement rates and increasing our expenses. Our Operations are Dependent on Humana and, At Times, Their and Our Economic Interests May Diverge. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 99.5% of our revenue was earned through the Humana Agreements. We expect that, going forward, substantially all of our revenue will continue to be derived under the Humana Agreements. Humana may immediately terminate any of the Humana Agreements and/or any individual physician credentialed under the Humana Agreements upon the occurrence of certain events. Humana may also amend the material terms of the Humana Agreements under certain circumstances. See “Item 1. Business- Humana Agreements” for a detailed discussion of the Humana Agreements. Failure to maintain the Humana Agreements on favorable terms, for any reason, would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A material decline in enrollees in Humana’s Medicare Advantage program could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Notwithstanding Humana and our current shared interest in providing service to Humana Participating Customers enrolled in Humana’s Medicare Advantage Plans, Humana and we have different and, at times, opposing economic interests. Humana provides a wide range of health insurance services across a wide range of geographic regions, utilizing a vast network of providers. As a result, Humana and we may have different views regarding the proper pricing of our services and/or the proper pricing of the various service providers in Humana’s provider networks, the cost of which we bear to the extent we utilize such service providers. Humana and we may also have different views regarding the efforts and expenditures that they, we and/or other service providers should make to achieve and/or maintain various quality ratings. Similarly, as a result of changes in laws, regulations, consumer preferences or other factors, Humana may find it in its best interest to provide health insurance services in Florida pursuant to another payment or reimbursement structure. In the event our interests diverge, we may have limited recourse or alternative options in light of our dependence on Humana. There can be no assurances that Humana and we will continue to find it mutually beneficial to work together. Because we operate exclusively as a PSN in Florida, primarily pursuant to the Humana Agreements, our exposure to many of the risks described herein are not mitigated by a diversification of our lines of business, geographic focus or sources of revenue. While there are limited restrictions to pursuing such diversification in certain Florida counties due to the Humana Agreements, we would have to establish new relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers. In addition, if we were to seek expansion into new geographic markets we would be required to comply with laws and regulations of states that differ from the ones in which we currently operate, and may face competitors with greater knowledge of such local markets. Reductions in the Quality Ratings of the Humana Plans We Serve Could Have an Adverse Affect on Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and/or Cash Flow As a result of the Reform Acts, we anticipate the level of reimbursement Humana receives from CMS will be dependent in part upon the quality rating of the Humana Medicare plans that we serve. Such ratings are expected to impact the percentage of any Cost Savings Rebate and any Bonuses earned by Humana. Since our revenue for 2011 is expected to be calculated as a percentage of CMS reimbursements received by Humana with respect to Humana Participating Customers, reductions in the quality ratings of the Humana plan that we serve could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Given Humana’s control of the plan and the many other providers that serve the plan, we believe we will have limited ability to influence the plan’s overall quality rating. -21- Future Reductions in Funding for Medicare Programs and other Healthcare Reform Initiatives Could Adversely Affect Our Profitability Substantially all of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from reimbursements generated by Humana Medicare Advantage plans. As a result, our revenue and profitability are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare Advantage programs. The Medicare programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, prospective and retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings, and funding restrictions, any of which could have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels. These government programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and continue to take steps to control the cost, use and delivery of healthcare services. For instance, the Reform Acts freeze the 2011 Medicare Advantage payment benchmarks at 2010 levels and thereafter reduce future year benchmark payments pursuant to a statutorily prescribed schedule. The Reform Acts also established a new Independent Payment Advisory Board to recommend ways to reduce Medicare spending if the increase in Medicare costs per capita exceeds certain targets. Notwithstanding the recent passage of the Reform Acts, additional steps could be taken by government agencies and plan providers to further restrict, directly or indirectly, the reimbursements available to plan service providers. Our Records and Submissions to Humana May Contain Inaccurate or Unsupportable Information Regarding Risk Adjustment Scores of Humana Participating Members, which Could Cause Us to Overstate or Understate Our Revenue and Subject Us to Various Penalties We submit to plan providers claims and encounter data that support the risk adjustment scores of our customers, which determine, in part, the revenue to which the plan provider and we are entitled for such customers. This data is submitted to CMS by Humana based on medical charts and diagnosis codes prepared and submitted by us. Humana generally relies on us to appropriately document and support such risk-adjustment data in their medical records and appropriately code customer claims. We sometimes experience errors in information and data reporting systems relating to claims, encounters, and diagnoses. Inaccurate or unsupportable coding, inaccurate records for new customers, and erroneous claims and encounter recording and submissions could result in inaccurate capitation fee revenue and risk adjustment payments, which are subject to correction or retroactive adjustment in later periods. Payments that we receive in connection with this corrected or adjusted information may be reflected in financial statements for periods subsequent to the period in which the revenue was recorded. We, the plan providers or CMS through a medical records review and risk adjustment validation, may also find that data regarding our customers’ risk scores, when reconciled, requires that we refund a portion of the revenue that we received, which refund, depending on its magnitude, could damage our relationship with the subject plan provider and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. CMS announced that it would audit Medicare Advantage plans, primarily targeted based on risk score growth, for compliance by the plans and their providers with proper coding practices. CMS began targeted medical record reviews and adjustment payment validations in late 2008, focusing on risk adjustment data from 2006 dates of service, which were the basis for premium payments for the 2008 plan year. CMS has indicated that payment adjustments will not be limited to risk scores for the specific beneficiaries for which errors are found but may be extrapolated to the entire plan. There can be no assurance that the plans we serve will not be randomly selected or targeted for review by CMS. In the event that a plan is selected for a review, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such a review will not result in a material adjustment in our revenue and profitability, even if the information we submitted to the plan is accurate and supportable. Because Substantially All of Our Revenue Is Established by Contract and Cannot Be Modified During the Contract Terms, Our Operating Margins Could be Negatively Impacted if We Are Unable to Manage Our Medical Expenses Effectively. The Humana Agreements are risk agreements under which we receive monthly payments for each Humana Participating Customer at a rate established by the agreements, also called a capitation fee. In accordance with the agreements, the total monthly payment is a function of the number of Humana Participating Customers, regardless of the actual utilization rate of covered services. In return, the PSN assumes financial responsibility for the provision of all necessary medical care to the Humana Participating Customers, regardless of whether or not its affiliated providers directly provide the covered medical services. To the extent that the Humana Participating Customers require more care than is anticipated, aggregate capitation rates may be insufficient to cover the costs associated with the treatment of such Humana Participating Customers. If medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances, we will be unable to increase the capitation fee received under these contracts during the then-current terms. -22- Since we do not negotiate with CMS or Humana regarding the benefits to be provided under Humana’s Medicare Advantage plans, we often have just a few months to familiarize ourselves with each new, annual package of benefits we are expected to offer. If Humana exercises its right to amend the benefits offered, we may object to such amendment within 30 days. If we object to such amendment, Humana may terminate the applicable Humana Agreement upon 90 days written notice. Aside from the foregoing, we have limited ability to negotiate with Humana regarding the scope of benefits we will be directly or indirectly responsible for providing. While the Humana Agreements covering 25,100 customers have one-year renewable terms, the term of the IPA Agreement, which covers 9,300 customers, is five years. Accordingly, even if the Humana Agreements covering the 25,100 customers were terminated, we could still have an obligation to provide services under the IPA Agreement for a number of years, potentially at a loss. Relatively small changes in our ratio of medical expense to revenue can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of revenue have fluctuated. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed estimates include: · the health status of our customers; · higher than expected utilization of new or existing healthcare services or technologies; · an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; · changes to mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; · Humana’s periodic renegotiation of provider contracts with specialist physicians, hospitals and ancillary providers; · periodic renegotiation of contracts with our affiliated primary care physicians; · changes in the demographics of our customers and medical trends affecting Medicare risk scores; · contractual or claims disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers within the Humana network; and · the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, or acts of terrorism. A Failure to Estimate Incurred But Not Reported Medical Benefits Expense Accurately Could Adversely Affect Our Profitability. Medical claims expense includes estimates of future medical claims that have been incurred by the customer but for which the provider has not yet billed us (“IBNR claims”). IBNR claim estimates are made utilizing actuarial methods and are continually evaluated and adjusted by management, based upon our historical claims experience and other factors. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to medical claims expense when the assumptions used to determine our IBNR claims liability changes and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. Due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the factors used in these estimates and changes in the patterns and rates of medical utilization, materially different amounts could be reported in our financial statements for a particular period under different conditions or using different, but still reasonable, assumptions. Although our past estimates of IBNR have typically been adequate, they may be inadequate in the future, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, the inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. We Face Certain Competitive Threats Which Could Reduce Our Profitability and Increase Competition for Customers. We face certain competitive threats based on certain features of the Medicare programs, including the following: · As a result of the direct and indirect impacts of the Reform Acts, many customers may decide that a traditional fee-for-service Medicare program is more attractive than the Humana Medicare Advantage plans we serve. As a result, enrollment in the plans we serve may decrease. · Managed care companies offer alternative products such as regional PPOs and private fee-for-service plans. Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans allow their customers more flexibility in selecting physicians than Medicare Advantage HMOs, which typically require customers to coordinate care with a primary care physician. The Medicare Modernization Act has encouraged the creation of regional PPOs through various incentives, including certain risk corridors, or cost-reimbursement provisions, a stabilization fund for incentive payments, and special payments to hospitals not otherwise contracted with a Medicare Advantage plan that treat regional plan enrollees. The formation of regional Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans can affect our PSN’s relative attractiveness to existing and potential Medicare customers in their service areas. -23- · The payments for the local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may indirectly cause a decrease in the amount of the capitation fee paid to the PSN or cause the PSN to increase the benefits it offers. · Medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment and disenrollment period during which they can choose between participating in a Medicare Advantage plan and receiving benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment and disenrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries will not be permitted to change their Medicare benefits. The annual enrollment process and subsequent “lock-in” provisions of the Reform Act may adversely affect our level of revenue growth as it will limit Humana’s ability to market to and enroll new customers in its established service areas outside of the annual enrollment period. · Commencing in 2012, CMS will allow Medicare beneficiaries who are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan with a quality rating of 4.5 stars or less to enroll in a 5 star rated Medicare Advantage plan at any time during the benefit year. If the plans we serve are not 5 star rated, such plans and we may face a competitive disadvantage recruiting and retaining customers. CMS’s Risk Adjustment Payment System Could Result In Material Retroactive Adjustments to Our Results of Operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish appropriate compensation for Medicare plans that enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS establishes premium payments to Medicare plans based on the plans’ approved bids at the beginning of the calendar year. Based on the customers’ known demographic and risk information, CMS then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis to take into account additional customer risk data. The first such adjustment updates the risk scores for the current year based on prior year’s dates of service. The second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. As a result of the variability of factors impacting risk scores, the actual amount of CMS’s retroactive adjustment could be materially more or less than our estimates. The change in this estimate may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare capitated fee revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. A Disruption in Our Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. Our operations and profitability are dependent, in part, upon our ability to contract with healthcare providers and provider networks on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks could refuse to contract with us or Humana, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our customers, or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some service areas, healthcare providers or provider networks may have significant market positions. If healthcare providers or provider networks refuse to contract with us or Humana, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts, or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then our ability to market products or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of customers or higher healthcare costs. A Disruption in Humana’s Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. A significant portion of the PSN’s total medical expenses are payable to entities that are not directly contracted with the PSN. Although virtually all of such entities are Humana approved service providers, and although the PSN can provide Humana input with respect to Humana’s service providers, the PSN does not control the process by which Humana negotiates and/or contracts with service providers in the Humana Medicare Advantage network. -24- We Depend on Humana to Provide Us with Crucial Information and Data. Humana provides a significant amount of information and services to the PSN, including revenue, claims and membership data and other information, including reports and calculations of costs of services provided and payments to be received by the PSN. The PSN does not own or control such systems and, accordingly, has limited ability to ensure that these systems are properly maintained, serviced and updated. In addition, information systems such as these may be vulnerable to failure, acts of sabotage and obsolescence. The PSN’s business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by its inability, for any reason, to receive timely and accurate information from Humana. Competition For Physician Practice Group Acquisitions and Other Factors May Impede Our Ability to Acquire Other Physician Practices and May Inhibit Our Growth. We anticipate that a portion of the future growth of our PSN may be accomplished through acquisitions of physician practices or other provider service networks with Humana or CarePlus contracts. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreements to acquire these companies, obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms and successfully integrate the operations of these businesses. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies that have similar growth strategies. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources then we have. This competition may prevent us from acquiring businesses that could improve our growth or expand our operations. Claims Relating to Medical Malpractice and Other Litigation Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, providers affiliated with the PSN involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some of these providers do not have malpractice insurance. As a result of increased costs or inability to secure malpractice insurance, the percentage of physicians who do not have malpractice insurance may increase. Although most of its network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a PSN should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and there can be no assurances that we will not incur substantial expense in defending these or future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories may significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. We maintain professional liability insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. Nonetheless, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations or the amount of insurance coverage and/or related reserves may be inadequate. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Our Industry is Already Very Competitive; Increased Competition Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue; the PSN Competes with Other Service Providers for Humana’s Business. We compete in the highly competitive and regulated healthcare industry, which is subject to continuing changes with respect to the provision of services and the selection and compensation of providers. Substantially all of our revenue was directly or indirectly derived from premiums generated by Medicare Advantage health plans. In 2010, substantially all of our revenue was earned through the Humana Agreements. Humana competes with other health plans in securing and serving customers in the Medicare Advantage Program. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources comparable to or greater than Humana, are competitors to Humana. The market in Florida has become increasingly attractive to health plans that may compete with Humana. Humana may not be able to continue to compete profitably in the healthcare industry if additional competitors enter the same market. -25- The PSN competes with other service providers for Humana’s business and Humana competes with other health plans in securing and serving customers in the Medicare Advantage Program. Failure to maintain favorable terms in the Humana Agreements would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Competitors of our PSN vary in size and scope and in terms of products and services offered. Our PSN competes directly with various regional and local companies that provide similar services. Some of the PSN’s direct competitors are WellCare, Continucare Corporation, Primary Care Associates, Inc., MCCI and Island Doctors, all based or operating in Florida. Additionally, companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than ours, may become competitors in providing similar services at any given time. The market in Florida has become increasingly attractive to competitors of the PSN due to the large population of Medicare participants. We and Humana may not be able to continue to compete effectively in the healthcare industry if additional competitors enter the same markets. We believe that many of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger than our PSN and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, it is our belief that some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves. We are Dependent upon Certain Executive Officers and Key Management Personnel for Our Future Success. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of certain of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and plans for future development. While we have a retention plan and employment contracts with certain executive officers and key management personnel, there can be no assurance that these persons will continue their employment with us. We compete with other companies in the industry for executive talent and there can be no assurance that highly qualified executives would be readily and easily available without delay, given the limited number of individuals in the industry with expertise particular to our business operations. Our Business Activities Are Highly Regulated and New and Proposed Government Regulation or Legislative Reforms Could Increase Our Cost of Doing Business, and Reduce Our Customer Base, Profitability, and Liquidity. Our business is subject to substantial federal and state regulation. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our contracts and licenses, directly or indirectly regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our customers, providers, and the public. Healthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: · reducing the capitation payments we receive; · imposing additional license, registration, or capital reserve requirements; · increasing our administrative and other costs; · forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; · increasing mandated benefits without corresponding capitation fee increases; · limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; · forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. It is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicare program and to continue to serve and attract new customers. -26- The Healthcare Industry is Highly Regulated. Our or Humana’s Failure to Comply with Laws or Regulations, or a Determination that in the Past We Had Failed to Comply with Laws or Regulations, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The healthcare services that we and our affiliated professionals, including the PSN physicians, provide are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various matters such as the licensing and certification of our facilities and personnel, the conduct of our operations, billing and coding policies and practices, policies and practices with regard to patient privacy and confidentiality, and prohibitions on payments for the referral of business and physician self-referrals. These laws and regulations generally aimed at protecting patients and federal healthcare programs, and the agencies charged with the administration of these laws and regulations have broad authority to enforce them. See Item 1. “Business - Government Regulation” for a discussion of the various federal government and state laws and regulations to which we are subject. The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits, and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses, and applicable laws and regulations. These reviews, audits and investigations can be time consuming and costly. An adverse review, audit, or investigation could result in one or more of the following: · loss of the PSN’s right to directly or indirectly participate in the Medicare program; · loss of one or more of the PSN’s licenses to act as a service provider or third party administrator or to otherwise provide or bill for a service; · forfeiture or recoupment of amounts the PSN has been paid pursuant to its contracts; · imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines, or other sanctions on us and/or our affiliated professionals and employees, including the PSN physicians; · damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; · increased restrictions on marketing of the PSN’s services; and · inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions, or acquisitions. Humana is also subject to substantial federal and state government regulation as well as governmental reviews, audits and investigations. Humana’s failure to comply with applicable regulations and/or maintain its licensure and rights to participate in the Medicare program would have a materially adverse effect on our business. We Are Required to Comply With Laws Governing the Transmission, Security and Privacy of Health Information That Require Significant Compliance Costs, and Any Failure to Comply With These Laws Could Result in Material Criminal and Civil Penalties. Regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, designated “business associates” and customers. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. HIPAA also provides that to the extent state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, the stricter state law requirements are not preempted by HIPAA. However, HIPAA generally does preempt more lenient state law requirements. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and, at times, conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with applicable HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Furthermore, a state’s ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance more difficult. To the extent that we submit electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that do not comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, payments may be delayed or denied. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. In addition, failure to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA could result in additional penalties. -27- Our Exploration of Various Forms of Business Proposals Could be Disruptive to Our Business and We May Never Recover Our Investment in Such Efforts. From time to time we explore various business proposals that we believe have the promise of resulting in a transaction or relationship that could be beneficial to us. Such proposals may relate to new service areas, new businesses, new services and/or strategic alternatives. Such perceived opportunities may be presented to us by third parties without solicitation and, in other instances, we may take certain actions to generate and/or gauge an expression of interest or an offer. The exploration of such proposals is an inherently uncertain process, not uniquely within our control and subject to unpredictable developments and set-backs. We may incur substantial expenses and consume considerable management and employee time, exploring whether or not to even conditionally advance one or more business proposals. The diversion of our management's and employees’ attention can be disruptive to our on-going business. Although our Board of Directors can commit to act in our best interest when making and/or evaluating any communications regarding business proposals, we cannot assure you that any series of conversations, expressions of interest or offers will ever result in an offer that is deemed to be in our best interest by our Board of Directors and/or shareholders, which may be asked to pass upon an offer in certain circumstances. Accordingly, we are also subject to the risk that we may never recoup the investment of money and/or management time that we devote to business proposals. We have Anti-Takeover Provisions Which May Make it Difficult to Acquire Us or Replace or Remove Current Management. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may delay or prevent our acquisition, a change in our management or similar change in control transaction, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices or that shareholders may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the Board of Directors. Because the Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of the management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our shareholders to replace the current members of the management team. These provisions provide, among other things, that: · any shareholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of shareholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; · the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors; and · the Board of Directors has the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, without shareholder approval. Our Quarterly Results Will Likely Fluctuate, Which Could Impact the Value of Our Common Stock. We are subject to quarterly variations in revenue and medical expenses due to, among other things, our ever evolving estimates of reimbursement rates and incurred but not reported medical expenses, as well as fluctuations in customer utilization. For example, our estimates of reimbursement rates are often materially impacted when CMS retroactively adjusts reimbursement rates and we generally experience a greater use of medical services in some months than others. Accordingly, our results of operations fluctuate from period to period and our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year, which could impact the value of our Common Stock. The Market Price of Our Common Stock Could Fall as a Result of Sales of Shares of Common Stock in the Market or the Price Could Remain Lower because of the Perception that Such Sales May Occur. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or the possibility of future sales may have on the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately 40.8 million shares of our Common Stock outstanding, all of which are freely tradable without restriction or tradable in accordance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act with the exception of approximately 3.4 million shares owned by certain of our officers, directors and affiliates which may be sold publicly at any time subject to the volume and other restrictions promulgated pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act and subject to legal restrictions such as insider trading laws. There are approximately 1.2 million restricted shares of our Common Stock owned by certain of our employees and directors at December 31, 2010 that are subject to forfeiture until vested in accordance with their terms. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 3.7 million shares of our Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options which were previously granted and 659,000 shares of our Common Stock were reserved for future issuance upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. -28- Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock or the perception that such sales could occur could adversely affect prevailing market prices which could impair our ability to raise funds through future sales of Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock could fluctuate significantly and unexpectedly as a result of a number of factors, including factors beyond our control and unrelated to our business. Some of the factors related to our business include termination of the Humana Agreements, announcements relating to our business or that of our competitors, adverse publicity concerning organizations in our industry, changes in state or federal legislation and programs, general conditions affecting the industry, performance of companies comparable to us, and changes in the expectations of analysts with the respect to our future financial performance. Additionally, our Common Stock may be affected by general economic conditions or specific occurrences such as epidemics (such as influenza), natural disasters (including hurricanes), and acts of war or terrorism. Because of the limited trading market for our Common Stock, and because of the possible price volatility, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock when they desire to do so. The inability to sell shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase our shareholders’ risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our Common Stock may suffer greater declines because of our price volatility. Delisting of Our Common Stock from NYSE Amex Would Adversely Affect Us and Our Shareholders. Our Common Stock is listed on the NYSE Amex. To maintain listing of securities, the NYSE Amex requires satisfaction of certain maintenance criteria that we may not be able to continue to be able to satisfy. If we are unable to satisfy such maintenance criteria in the future and we fail to comply, our Common Stock may be delisted from trading on NYSE Amex. If our Common Stock is delisted from trading on NYSE Amex, then trading, if any, might thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or on the "Electronic Bulletin Board" of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and consequently an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our Common Stock. Our Common Stock May Not be Excepted from “Penny Stock” Rules, Which May Adversely Affect the Market Liquidity of Our Common Stock. The Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 requires additional disclosure relating to the market for penny stocks in connection with trades in any stock defined as a “penny stock”. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “Commission” or the “SEC”) regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For example, such exceptions include any equity security listed on a national securities exchange such as the NYSE Amex. Currently, our Common Stock meets this exception. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. In addition, if our Common Stock becomes delisted from the NYSE Amex and we do not meet another exception to the penny stock regulations, trading in our Common Stock would be covered by the Commission's Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act for non-national securities exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities also are exempt from this rule if the market price is at least $5.00 per share. If our Common Stock becomes subject to the regulations applicable to penny stocks, the market liquidity for our Common Stock could be adversely affected. In such event, the regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker/dealers to sell our Common Stock and thus the ability of purchasers of our Common Stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. -29- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 