Item 1A. Risk Factors Uncertainty about or a slowdown in the domestic and global economies may increasingly adversely affect Brocade’s operating results and financial condition. There is ongoing uncertainty about the domestic and global economies and there may be a prolonged period of significant slowdown. Such uncertainty or slowdown may result in lower growth in the networking industry and reduced demand for information technology, including high-performance data networking solutions. Information technology spending has historically declined as federal spending decreases and general economic and market conditions have worsened. If the domestic and/or global economy undergoes a prolonged period of uncertainty or a significant downturn, such as the debt crisis occurring in the Eurozone economy, or if Brocade’s customers believe such a period of uncertainty or a downturn will continue for a sustained period, they will likely reduce their information technology spending and future budgets. Brocade is particularly susceptible to reductions in information technology spending because the purchase of Brocade’s products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Future delays or reductions in information technology spending, domestically and/or internationally, could harm Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, increased inventory provisions, increased production costs, lowered prices for products and reduced sales volumes. Similarly, as Brocade’s suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials Brocade uses to manufacture its products. These events have caused, and may cause further, reductions in Brocade’s revenue, profitability and cash flows, increased price competition, increased operating costs and longer fulfillment cycles and exacerbate many other risks noted in this Form 10-K, which adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Given the current uncertainty about the extent and duration of the global financial recovery, it is increasingly difficult for Brocade, Brocade’s customers and Brocade’s suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause Brocade to produce excess products that would increase Brocade’s inventory carrying costs and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products or materials used in Brocade’s products that would result in an inability to satisfy demand for Brocade’s products and a loss of market share. A period of uncertainty or economic downturn may also significantly affect financing markets, the availability of capital and the terms and conditions of financing arrangements, including the overall cost of financing. Circumstances may arise in which Brocade needs, or desires, to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which in turn could adversely affect Brocade’s financial condition. Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent Brocade from increasing or maintaining revenue, profitability and cash flows with respect to its networking solutions. The networking market is increasingly competitive. While Cisco maintains a dominant position in the Ethernet networking market, other companies have strengthened their networking portfolios through acquisitions, including Dell’s acquisition of Force10 Networks, HP’s acquisition of 3Com, and IBM’s acquisition of Blade Network Technologies. These acquisitions will significantly limit Brocade’s ability to sell Ethernet products through these companies and may also indirectly impact the Fibre Channel business. HP, IBM and Dell are important OEM partners for Brocade in the Fibre Channel switching market, yet also are competitive with Brocade in other respects. Other competitors in the Ethernet networking market include Arista Networks, Alcatel- Lucent, Avaya Inc., A10 Networks, Inc., Enterasys Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and Juniper Networks, Inc. Brocade also competes with Cisco and QLogic Corporation in the Fibre Channel switching market and with QLogic and Emulex Corporation in the server connectivity or HBA market. In addition, EMC, one of Brocade’s 13 Table of Contents top OEM customers in terms of Fibre Channel sales and a go-to-market and technology partner since 1997, has formed a separate venture with Cisco and VMware called the VCE that enables the new company to sell packaged “cloud computing” and data center virtualization solutions. The above-referenced acquisitions and business partnerships demonstrate the increasingly complex nature of relationships within the networking industry, especially as the IT industry migrates to cloud computing models. This trend has led the networking industry to introduce new solutions and technology architectures to support cloud computing. Brocade calls this category “Ethernet fabrics” and has introduced a new solution portfolio through the Brocade VDX 6720 Data Center Switch and the Brocade VCS software. Brocade’s competitors also recently introduced and have begun shipping new products focused on cloud computing and delivering alternative flat network solutions such as Juniper Networks with its QFabric architecture and Cisco with its Fabricpath. Other competition in cloud solutions include Arista Networks, Avaya Inc., Alcatel-Lucent and Dell/Force10 Networks who have all recently introduced roadmaps and solutions targeted at cloud computing users. Some of Brocade’s competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Brocade’s competitors could also adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Brocade. Brocade believes that competition based on price may become more aggressive than it has traditionally experienced. As a result of these factors, Brocade’s competitors could devote more resources to develop, promote and sell their own products rather than Brocade’s, and, therefore, those competitors could respond more quickly to changes in customer or market requirements. Brocade’s failure to successfully compete in the market would harm Brocade’s business and financial results. The prices of Brocade’s products have declined in the past and Brocade expects the prices of Brocade’s products to continue to decline, which could reduce Brocade’s revenues, gross margins and profitability. The average selling price for Brocade’s products has typically declined in the past and will likely continue to decline in the future as a result of changes in competitive pricing pressure, broader macroeconomic factors, product mix, enhanced marketing programs, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, the entrance of new competitors and other factors. Price declines may also increase as competitors ramp up product releases that compete with Brocade’s products. Furthermore, particularly as economic conditions deteriorate and drive a more cautious capital spending environment in the technology sector, Brocade and its competitors could pursue more aggressive pricing strategies in an effort to maintain or seek to increase sales levels. If Brocade is unable to offset the negative impact from the above factors on the average selling price of Brocade’s products by increasing the volume of products shipped or reducing product manufacturing costs, Brocade’s total revenues and gross margins will be negatively impacted. In addition, to maintain Brocade’s gross margins, Brocade must maintain or increase the number of existing products shipped and develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with improved costs, and continue to reduce the overall manufacturing costs of Brocade’s products. While Brocade has successfully reduced the cost of manufacturing Brocade’s products in the past, Brocade may not be able to continue to reduce cost of production at historical rates. Moreover, most of Brocade’s expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, Brocade may not be able to decrease its spending quickly enough or in sufficient amounts to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, Brocade could incur losses and Brocade’s operating results and gross margins could be below expectations. Additionally, Brocade’s gross margins may be negatively affected by fluctuations in manufacturing volumes, component costs, foreign currency exchange rates, the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of distribution channels through which its products are sold. In addition, if product or related warranty costs associated with Brocade’s products are greater than previously experienced, Brocade’s gross margins may also be adversely affected. Brocade has also announced its plans to increase gross margins for its Ethernet products by a combination of initiatives, including new product introductions with improved gross margins, normalized 14 Table of Contents pricing, inventory management and increased product volumes. If Brocade is not able to successfully execute on one or more of these on-going initiatives, gross margin improvements may not be realized. The loss of any of Brocade’s major OEM customers, the failure to successfully grow a direct and channel model or any other significant failure to execute on Brocade’s overall sales strategy could significantly reduce Brocade’s revenues and negatively affect Brocade’s financial results. Brocade’s SAN business depends on recurring purchases from a limited number of large OEM partners for a substantial portion of its revenues. As a result, these large OEM partners have a significant influence on Brocade’s quarterly and annual financial results. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the same three customers each represented 10% or more of Brocade’s total net revenues. Brocade’s agreements with its OEM partners are typically cancelable, non-exclusive, have no minimum purchase requirements and have no specific timing requirements for purchases. Brocade’s OEM partners could also elect to eliminate, reduce, or rebalance the amount they purchase from Brocade and/or increase the amount purchased from Brocade’s competitors or introduce their own technology. Changes to inventory levels at one or multiple partners can negatively impact Brocade’s revenue and earnings results and may mask underlying end-user demand. Also, one or more of Brocade’s OEM partners could elect to consolidate or enter into a strategic partnership with one of Brocade’s competitors, which could reduce or eliminate Brocade’s future revenue opportunities with that OEM partner. Brocade anticipates that a significant portion of its revenues and operating results from its SAN business will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of OEM partners. The loss of any one significant OEM partner, or a decrease in the level of sales to any one significant OEM partner, or unsuccessful quarterly negotiation on key terms, conditions or timing of purchase orders placed during a quarter, would likely cause serious harm to Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade’s OEM partners evaluate and qualify Brocade’s SAN products for a limited time period before they begin to market and sell them. Assisting Brocade’s OEM partners through the evaluation process requires significant sales, marketing and engineering management efforts on Brocade’s part, particularly if Brocade’s SAN products are being qualified with multiple distribution partners at the same time. In addition, once Brocade’s SAN products have been qualified, its customer agreements have no minimum purchase commitments. Brocade may not be able to effectively maintain or expand its distribution channels, manage distribution relationships successfully, or market its products through distribution partners. Brocade offers its Ethernet products through a multipath distribution strategy, including through resellers, distributors and direct, and through OEMs that have historically offered Brocade SAN products. However, these new and expanded channels may not generate much, if any, Ethernet revenue opportunities for Brocade. This is further compounded by the fact that several major OEMs, including Dell, IBM and HP, have acquired companies who offer Ethernet products competitive to Brocade’s offerings. A loss of or significant reduction in revenue through one of Brocade’s paths to market would impact Brocade’s financial results. Additionally, Brocade has focused substantial resources to emphasize the Ethernet networking market and grow revenues through a channels strategy. This focus towards the Ethernet networking market may negatively impact Brocade’s other businesses such as its Data Storage networking products because management’s attention and limited resources such as employees may be reallocated away from Brocade’s Data Storage products and towards Ethernet products. Brocade must continually anticipate and respond to the needs of its distribution partners and their customers, and ensure that its products integrate with their solutions. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage and grow its distribution relationships or the failure of its distribution partners to sell Brocade’s products could reduce Brocade’s revenues significantly. In addition, Brocade’s ability to respond to the needs of its distribution partners in the future may depend on third parties producing complementary products and applications for Brocade’s products. There can be no assurance that Brocade will be successful in expanding its go to market objectives. If Brocade fails to respond successfully to the needs of these distribution partners, its business and financial results could be harmed. 15 Table of Contents The loss or delay of continued orders from any of Brocade’s more significant customers, such as the U.S. government or individual agencies within the U.S. government such as the Department of Defense or Intelligence where Brocade’s revenue is highly concentrated, or companies within the financial services, education and health sectors, could also cause its revenue and profitability to suffer. For example, if Brocade is unable to offer qualified products to such government customers due to regulations and requirements with respect to country of origin designation, or if Brocade experiences governmental procurement delays due to the timing of approval of the federal budget, budget reductions that target specific agencies where Brocade’s revenue is concentrated, including reductions resulting from the recently failed efforts by the Congressional Super Committee, or other reasons, Brocade’s revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, a change in the mix of Brocade’s customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect its revenue and gross margins. Also, such governmental delays or budget reductions could negatively impact IT spending across the broader economy and therefore negatively impact Brocade’s revenue and operating results. Brocade’s future revenue growth depends on its ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. Developing new offerings requires significant upfront investments that may not result in revenue for an extended period of time, if at all. Brocade must achieve widespread market acceptance of Brocade’s new product and service offerings on a timely basis in order to realize the benefits of Brocade’s investments. The market for networking solutions, however, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerating product introduction cycles, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Brocade’s future success depends largely upon its ability to address the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. This risk will likely become more pronounced as the networking markets become more competitive and as demand for new and improved technologies increases. Examples of such technological developments include adoption of network attached storage and iSCSI in storage networks, which may displace existing solutions in actual customer implementations and may erode the total addressable market for Fibre Channel products. Brocade recently introduced its newest portfolio of Fibre Channel switching products that support the new 16 Gbps technology. The transition to this new Fibre Channel technology may be negatively impacted if customers accelerate their adoption of alternative storage networking technologies. Brocade is also an early developer of, and the vendor who was first-to-market for, Ethernet fabrics based on the Brocade VDX 6720 and Brocade VCS software, which were built to provide the features necessary to support virtualization and private clouds. The success of Ethernet fabrics will depend on customers recognizing the need to upgrade their data center LANs to fabric-based architectures. Although Brocade plans to continue to invest in this area with new and enhanced Ethernet fabric solutions, Brocade’s future success would be negatively impacted if this technological transition does not occur at the anticipated rate or at all. Other factors that may affect Brocade’s successful introduction of new product and service offerings include Brocade’s ability to: • Properly determine the market for and define new products and services, which can be particularly challenging for initial product offerings in new markets; • Differentiate Brocade’s new products and services from its competitors’ technology and product offerings; • Address the complexities of interoperability of Brocade’s products with its installed base, OEM partners’ server and storage products and its competitors’ products; • Meet or exceed customer requirements for product features, cost-effectiveness, and scalability; and • Maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. 16 Table of Contents Various factors impacting market acceptance are outside of Brocade’s control, including the following: • The availability and price of competing products and alternative technologies; • The cost of certain product subcomponents, which could cause Brocade to modify prices to maintain adequate gross margins; • Product qualification requirements by Brocade’s OEM partners, which can cause delays in the market acceptance; • The timing of the adoption of new industry standards relative to Brocade’s development of new technologies and products; • The ability of its OEM partners to successfully distribute, support and provide training for its products; and • Customer acceptance of Brocade’s products, including its Ethernet solutions and in particular its Ethernet fabric solutions. If Brocade is not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, its business and results of operations will likely be harmed. As Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade must also successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade faces numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. In addition, any customer uncertainty regarding the timeline for rolling out new products or Brocade’s plans for future support of existing products may negatively impact customer purchase decisions. If Brocade loses key talent or is unable to hire additional qualified talent, Brocade’s business may be harmed. Brocade’s success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other talent, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Brocade believes its future success depends, in large part, upon Brocade’s ability to effectively attract highly skilled sales talent in addition to managerial, engineering and other talent, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically diverse locations. There is limited qualified talent in each applicable market and competition for such talent has become much more aggressive. Other companies in Brocade’s industry and geographic regions are recruiting from the same limited talent pool which creates further compression on the availability of qualified talent. In particular, Brocade operates in various locations with highly competitive labor markets including Bangalore, India and San Jose, California, as well as certain emerging labor markets, such as the Eastern European and Latin American markets. Brocade may experience difficulty in hiring qualified talent with skills in areas such as sales, ASICs, software, system and test, product management, marketing, service, customer support and key management. In addition, future declines in Brocade’s stock price would reduce the value of equity awards granted to its employees. If such a decline in Brocade’s stock price were to occur, Brocade’s ability to incentivize, retain or attract qualified talent could be negatively impacted. Additionally, such declines in stock price may result in additional “underwater” stock options held by certain employees. Brocade’s ability to retain qualified talent may also be affected by future and recent acquisitions, which may cause uncertainty and loss of key talent. The loss of the services of any of Brocade’s key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified talent in the future, or delays in hiring required talent, particularly sales and engineering talent, could delay the development and introduction of Brocade’s products or services, and negatively affect Brocade’s ability to sell its products or services. 17 Table of Contents In addition, companies in the computer storage, networking and server industries whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Brocade may be subject to such claims in the future as Brocade seeks to hire additional qualified talent. Such claims could result in litigation. As a result, Brocade could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is resolved against Brocade. The failure to accurately forecast demand for Brocade’s products or the failure to successfully manage the production of Brocade’s products could negatively affect Brocade’s product cost or Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. Brocade provides product forecasts to its contract manufacturers and places purchase orders with them in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to Brocade’s customers. In preparing sales and demand forecasts, Brocade relies largely on input from its sales force, partners, resellers and end-user customers. Therefore, if Brocade or its partners are unable to accurately forecast demand, or if Brocade fails to effectively communicate with its distribution partners about end-user demand or other time-sensitive information, the sales and demand forecasts may not reflect the most accurate, up-to-date information. If these forecasts are inaccurate, Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories. Furthermore, Brocade may not be able to identify forecast discrepancies until late in its fiscal quarter. Consequently, Brocade may not be able to make timely adjustments to its business model. If Brocade is unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers, or if Brocade is unable to make necessary adjustments to Brocade’s business model, revenue may be delayed or even lost to Brocade’s competitors and Brocade’s business and financial results may be harmed. If excess inventories accumulate, Brocade’s gross margins may be negatively impacted by write-downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory. In addition, Brocade may experience higher fixed costs as it expands its contract manufacturer capabilities, which could negatively affect Brocade’s ability to react quickly if demand suddenly decreases. Brocade’s ability to accurately forecast demand also may become increasingly more difficult as Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, begins phasing out certain products, or acquires other companies or businesses. Forecasting demand for products that are nearing end of life or are being replaced by new versions, and decreasing production on these older products, while at the same time ramping up production on the new products, may be difficult. Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate supply of new product components and/or manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements and such a situation may negatively impact revenues. Brocade may also accumulate excess inventories that may negatively impact gross margins due to write-downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory. In addition, although the purchase orders placed with Brocade’s contract manufacturers are cancelable in certain circumstances, if Brocade cancels any of its CM purchase orders, Brocade could be required to purchase certain unused material of the CM if that material is not returnable, usable by, or sold to other customers. This purchase commitment exposure is particularly high in periods of new product introductions and product transitions. If Brocade is required to purchase unused material from Brocade’s contract manufacturers, Brocade could incur unanticipated expenses, including write-downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory, and Brocade’s business and financial results could be negatively affected. In the past, Brocade has experienced delays in shipments of its Ethernet products from its contract manufacturers and OEMs, which in turn delayed product shipments to its customers. Brocade may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, such as insufficient quantity of product, acquisition by a competitor or loss of business from one or more of its OEMs, any of which could harm Brocade’s business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Brocade has a substantial amount of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet, and Brocade could be required to record impairment charges for these assets; Any impairment of the carrying value of those assets could adversely affect Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade has a substantial amount of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. The goodwill and acquired intangibles relate to Brocade’s prior strategic acquisitions. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, Brocade may elect to realign its resources strategically and consider restructuring, selling, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in, sell, dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, goodwill impairment charges, intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. As a result of Brocade’s acquisition of Foundry in December 2008, Brocade reorganized into four operating segments, of which two are individually reportable segments: Data Storage Products and Global Services; and the two other operating segments, Ethernet Switching & IP Routing and ADP, combine to form a third reportable segment: Ethernet Products. Brocade’s determination of fair value of long-lived assets relies on management’s assumptions of future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s estimates of future operating results change or if there are changes to other assumptions, such as the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the estimate of the fair value of Brocade’s reporting units could change significantly, which could result in goodwill impairment charges. Brocade’s estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of Brocade’s carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Brocade is required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. Brocade conducted its annual goodwill impairment test during the second fiscal quarter of 2011, and determined that no impairment needed to be recorded (see Note 4, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and sensitivity analysis performed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). If future goodwill impairment tests result in a charge to earnings, Brocade’s financial results would be adversely affected. Brocade has determined that more-likely-than-not it will realize its deferred tax assets based on positive evidence of its historical operations and projections of future income. Accordingly, the Company only applies a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets relating to capital loss and investment loss carryforwards. In the event future income by jurisdiction is less than what is currently projected, Brocade may be required to apply a valuation allowance to these deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where realization of such assets are no longer more-likely-than-not (see Note 15, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Brocade’s estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are also affected by changes in real estate market conditions. In addition, Brocade has made investments in certain private companies which could become impaired if the operating results of those companies change adversely. Brocade’s revenues and operating results and financial position may fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, which make predicting results of operations difficult and could adversely affect the trading price of Brocade’s stock. Information technology spending is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners or other customers will affect Brocade’s business in the future, particularly as Brocade releases new products. While Brocade’s first and fourth fiscal quarters have typically been seasonally stronger quarters than its second and third fiscal quarters, particularly for storage networking products, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. In 19 Table of Contents addition, the Federal budget for government IT spending can be subject to delay, reductions and uncertainty from time to time due to political and legislative volatility, which can cause Brocade’s financial results to fluctuate unevenly and unpredictably. Uneven sales patterns are not only difficult to predict, but also can result in irregular shipment patterns that can cause shortages or underutilized capacity, increase costs due to higher inventory levels, and otherwise adversely impact inventory planning. For example, Brocade’s Ethernet networking business has experienced significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period. Orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to Brocade’s manufacturing lead times. This exposes Brocade to additional inventory risk because Brocade must order products in anticipation of expected future orders and additional sales risk if Brocade is unable to fulfill unanticipated demand. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results and financial position may vary significantly in the future due to the factors noted above as well as other factors, including but not limited to, the following: • Receipt of a high number of customer orders towards the end of a fiscal quarter will increase reported receivables outstanding as a fraction of reported sales and result in higher days sales outstanding; • Disruptions, or a continued decline, in general economic conditions, particularly in the information technology industry and U.S. federal government budget cycles, especially those governmental departments such as the Department of Defense and Intelligence that are likely to be negatively impacted by budget reductions and where Brocade’s revenue is highly concentrated; • Announcements of pending or completed acquisitions or other strategic transactions by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • Announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • The timing of customer orders, product qualifications and product introductions of Brocade’s partners; • Long and complex sales cycles; • Internal supply and inventory management objectives of Brocade’s OEM partners and other customers; • Brocade’s ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of its customers; • Brocade’s ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-sourced components, including ASICs, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips and programmable logic devices; • Availability of supply or increases in prices of components used in the manufacture of Brocade’s products; • Variations in the mix of Brocade’s products sold and the mix of distribution channels and geographies through which they are sold; • Pending or threatened litigation, including any settlements or judgments related to such litigation; • Stock-based compensation expense that is affected by Brocade’s stock price; • Examinations by government tax authorities that may have unfavorable outcomes and subject Brocade to additional tax liabilities; • New legislation and regulatory developments, including increases to tax rates or changes to treatment of an income or expense item; and • Other risk factors detailed in this section. Accordingly, Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in future. The results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Brocade 20 Table of Contents cannot assure you that in some future quarter Brocade’s revenues or operating results will not be below Brocade’s projections or the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, which could cause Brocade’s stock price to decline. Brocade has extensive international operations, which subjects it to additional business risks. A significant portion of Brocade’s sales occur in international jurisdictions. In addition, Brocade’s contract manufacturers have significant operations in China. Brocade plans to continue to expand its international operations and sales activities. Brocade’s international sales of its Ethernet networking products have primarily depended on a variety of its resellers, including Avnet Technology Solutions and Computacenter AG & Co. OHG in Europe and Net One Systems in Japan. The failure by international resellers to sell Brocade’s products could limit its ability to sustain and grow revenue. Maintenance or expansion of international sales or international operations involves inherent risks that Brocade may not be able to control, including: • Exposure to economic instability or fluctuations in international markets that could cause reductions in customer and public sector IT spending; • Exposure to inflationary risks in China and the continuing sovereign debt risk in Europe; • Reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, particularly in jurisdictions that have less developed intellectual property regimes such as China and India; • Managing research and development teams in geographically diverse locations, including teams divided between the United States and India; • Significant wage inflation in certain growing economies such as India; • Increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the appreciation of foreign currencies such as the Chinese yuan or European Union’s euro; • Communicating effectively across multiple geographies, cultures and languages; • Recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support Brocade’s products in international markets; • Complying with governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for its products; • Increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • Commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; • Multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • Longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times; • Increased complexity and cost of providing customer support and maintenance for international customers; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and • Increased complexity of logistics and distribution arrangements. Failure to manage expansion effectively could seriously harm Brocade’s business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, international political instability may halt or hinder Brocade’s ability to do business and may increase Brocade’s costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, may suddenly increase international tensions. Such events may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect Brocade’s business operations or the operations of Brocade’s OEM partners, end-user customers and channels, contract manufacturers and suppliers. 21 Table of Contents To date, no material amount of Brocade’s international revenues and cost of revenues have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Brocade’s products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase Brocade’s product and operating costs in foreign locations (e.g., appreciation of the European Union’s euro and Chinese yuan). In the future, a larger portion of Brocade’s international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will subject Brocade to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. In addition, Brocade may be unable to successfully hedge against any such fluctuations. Brocade is subject to, and may in the future be subject to other, intellectual property infringement claims and litigation that are costly to defend and/or settle, and that could result in significant damage and cost awards against Brocade and limit Brocade’s ability to use certain technologies in the future. Brocade competes in markets that are frequently subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trade secret, and/or other intellectual property related claims against Brocade and/or employees of Brocade. These claims may be, and have been in the past, made against Brocade’s products and services, subcomponents of its products, methods performed by its products, or a combination of products, including third party products, methods used in its operations or uses of its products by its customers, or may concern Brocade’s hiring of a former employee of the third party claimant. Brocade and companies acquired by Brocade, such as Foundry, have in the past incurred, are currently incurring, and will in the future incur, substantial expenses to defend against such third-party claims. For instance, Brocade currently is defending patent-related lawsuits, including lawsuits filed by A10 Networks, Inc., Enterasys Networks, Inc. and Chrimar Systems, Inc. Brocade’s suppliers and customers also may be subject to third party intellectual property claims, which could negatively impact their ability to supply Brocade or their willingness to purchase from Brocade, respectively. In addition, Brocade may be subject to claims and indemnification obligations with respect to third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to Brocade agreements with suppliers, OEM and channel partners, or customers. The third party asserters of such intellectual property claims may be unreasonable in their demands, or may simply refuse to settle, which could lead to expensive settlement payments, prolonged periods of litigation expenses, additional burden on employees or other resources, distraction from Brocade’s business initiatives and operations, component supply stoppages and lost sales. In the event of an adverse determination, Brocade could incur substantial monetary liability and be prohibited from utilizing certain intellectual property or technology, hiring certain people, selling, shipping, importing or servicing certain products or incorporating necessary components into Brocade’s products. Suppliers of components or OEM systems to Brocade may be unwilling to, or not be able to, defend or indemnify Brocade against third-party assertions directed at, or based in part on, the components or systems they supply to Brocade, and may be unwilling to take licenses that would assure Brocade’s supply of such components or OEM systems. Suppliers subject to third party intellectual property claims also may choose to, or be forced by litigation to, discontinue or alter components or services supplied to Brocade, with little or no advance notice to Brocade. Customers may perceive such third-party intellectual property claims as risks, and may, as a result, be less willing to do business with Brocade. Such claims or litigation could also negatively impact Brocade’s recruiting efforts or ability to retain its employees. Any of the above scenarios could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and future business prospects. Brocade’s intellectual property rights may be infringed or misappropriated by others, and Brocade may not be able to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights. Brocade’s intellectual property rights may be infringed or misappropriated by others. In some cases, such infringement or misappropriation may be undetectable, or enforcement of Brocade’s rights may be impractical. From time to time, Brocade sends notice to third parties to assert its intellectual property rights and to request that those third parties take steps to address Brocade’s concerns. In addition, Brocade has filed, and may in the future file, lawsuits against third parties in an effort to enforce its intellectual property rights. For instance, in the 22 Table of Contents fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, Brocade filed a patent infringement, copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation and unfair competition lawsuit against A10 Networks, Inc. and certain individuals. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that Brocade will prevail in such assertions or enforcement efforts, either on the merits, or with respect to particular relief sought, such as damages or an injunction. Further, the opposing party may attempt to prove that the asserted intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, and, if successful, may seek recompense for its attorney fees and costs. Further, the opposing party may counterclaim against Brocade, for example, for infringement of its own patents or other intellectual property rights, or may assert other tort or contract claims, which could lead to further expense and potential exposure for Brocade. Brocade relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and measures such as physical and operational security and contractual restrictions, to protect its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technologies, but none of these methods of protection may be entirely appropriate to address the particular risk or reliable, due to, for instance, employee hiring and turnover, geographic dispersion of employees, technology disclosures with suppliers, customers, and partners, unpredictable events, misappropriation or negligence, operations in various countries that do not have well-established or reliable enforcement institutions or customs, and other aspects of doing business on the scale of Brocade’s operations. The measures Brocade has taken to protect its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technologies may prove inadequate, which could result in a loss of intellectual property rights. Brocade attempts to identify its technological developments for assessment of whether to file patent applications, but there can be no assurance that all patentable technological developments will be captured in patent applications. Further, although Brocade has patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. Further, physical and operational security can be adversely affected, and associated policies and training rendered ineffective, by employee attitudes, carelessness or disregard for policies, malfeasors or changes in technology, such as the now-near-ubiquitous availability of portable memory devices. In addition, due to less developed intellectual property regimes in certain jurisdictions, Brocade may not be able to protect fully its intellectual property as Brocade expands its operations globally. Brocade relies on licenses from third parties and the loss or inability to obtain any such license could harm its business. Many of Brocade’s products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, Brocade believes that, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Brocade’s inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on Brocade’s business, operating results and financial condition, including its ability to continue to distribute or support effected products. In addition, if Brocade has failed or in the future fails to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in Brocade’s products, or if companies acquired by Brocade such as Foundry or McDATA failed in such regard, Brocade may be required to license key portions of Brocade’s products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of source code, or to commence costly product redesigns, which could result in a loss of intellectual property rights, product performance degradation or delay in shipping products to customers. Brocade is dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components, the loss of which may significantly impact results of operations. Although Brocade uses standard parts and components for its products where possible, Brocade’s contract manufacturers currently purchase, on Brocade’s behalf, several key components used in the manufacture of its products from single or limited supplier sources. Brocade’s single source components include, but are not limited to, its application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) and Brocade’s principal limited source components 23 Table of Contents include memory, certain oscillators, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips, power supplies, programmable logic devices, printed circuit boards, certain optical components, packet processors and switching fabrics. Brocade generally acquires these components through purchase orders and has no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing with such suppliers. If Brocade is unable to obtain these and other components when required, or if Brocade experiences component defects, Brocade may not be able to deliver Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers in a timely manner and may be required to repair or retro-fit products previously delivered to customers at significant expense to Brocade. In addition, a challenging economic or industry environment could cause some of these sole source or limited source suppliers to delay or halt production or to go out of business or be acquired by third parties, which could result in a disruption in Brocade’s supply chain. Brocade’s supply chain could also be disrupted in a variety of other circumstances that may impact its suppliers and partners, including adverse results from intellectual property litigation or natural disasters. As a result, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. In addition, the loss of any of Brocade’s major third-party contract manufacturers, or portions of their capacity, could significantly impact Brocade’s ability to produce its products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is typically a lengthy and expensive process. If Brocade is required to change any of its contract manufacturers or if any of its contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers could be delayed and result in loss of revenues and Brocade’s competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. Undetected software or hardware errors could increase Brocade’s costs, reduce Brocade’s revenues and delay market acceptance of Brocade’s products. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, or bugs, when first introduced or as new versions are released. Brocade’s products are becoming increasingly complex and particularly, as Brocade continues to expand its product portfolio to include software-centric products, including software licensed from third parties, errors may be found from time to time in Brocade’s products. In addition, through its acquisitions, Brocade has assumed, and may in the future assume, products previously developed by an acquired company that have not been through the same level of product development, testing and quality control processes used by Brocade, and may have known or undetected errors. Some types of errors also may not be detected until the product is installed in a heavy production or user environment. In addition, Brocade’s products are often combined with other products, including software, from other vendors, and these products often need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause Brocade to incur significant warranty and repair costs, may divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts, and may cause significant customer relations problems such as reputational problems with customers. Moreover, the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by another vendor’s storage, data management or Ethernet products or Brocade’s, could delay market acceptance of Brocade’s new products. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments, and integration of acquired companies or technologies or divestiture of businesses may negatively impact Brocade’s overall business. Brocade has in the past acquired, or made strategic investments in, other companies, products or technologies, and Brocade expects to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. One example was Brocade’s acquisition of Foundry in December 2008. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of any of its acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in successfully integrating the acquired businesses; 24 Table of Contents • Inability to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; • Customer uncertainty that may cause delays or cancellations of customer purchases, as well as revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels if existing customers alter or reduce their historical buying patterns; • Unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • Diversion of management’s attention from Brocade’s daily operations and business; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • Risks associated with entering into markets in which Brocade has limited or no prior experience, including potentially less visibility into demand; • Inability to attract and retain key employees; • Inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • Inability to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities of the combined company; • Inability to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to the combined company; • Inability to qualify the combined company’s products with OEM partners on a timely basis, or at all; • Inability to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems; • Failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • Assumption or incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and related obligations to service such liabilities and Brocade’s ability to satisfy financial and other negative operating covenants; • Additional costs such as increased costs of manufacturing and service costs, costs associated with excess or obsolete inventory, costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes, advisor and professional fees, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services; • Incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • Incurrence of significant charges if Brocade divests, disposes of or otherwise exits all or part of a business; • Incurrence of acquisition and integration related costs, accounting charges, or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets, that could negatively impact Brocade’s operating results and financial condition; and • Potential write-down of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and/or deferred tax assets, which are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, and could significantly impact Brocade’s operating results. Brocade may divest certain businesses from time to time. Such divestitures will likely involve risks, such as difficulty splitting up businesses, distracting employees, potential loss of revenue and negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. 25 Table of Contents If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate or divest businesses, products, technologies or personnel that Brocade acquires or divests, or to realize expected benefits of Brocade’s acquisitions, divestitures or strategic investments, Brocade’s business and financial results would be adversely affected. Brocade’s business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements, and environmental regulations that could adversely affect Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade is subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which Brocade’s common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the FASB, the SEC, the IRS and NASDAQ, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. In addition, the Department of Treasury, the SEC and various Congressional representatives have recently proposed additional rules and regulations that may go into effect in the near future. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act was enacted. The Act included significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions and also required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Brocade is also subject to various rules and regulations of certain foreign jurisdictions, including applicable tax regulations. Brocade’s efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Similarly, any change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which Brocade does business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in Brocade’s tax expense. For example, in the 2011 and 2012 budget proposals, the President of the United States and the U.S. Treasury Department have proposed changing certain of the U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States. With increasing discussions around overall U.S. tax reform, and other legislation that have not yet been proposed or enacted, these or other changes in the federal or state tax laws could increase Brocade’s U.S. income tax liability in the future. Brocade is subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. For example, in December 2011, Brocade received and accepted an offer from the Appeals division of the IRS to settle its fiscal years 2004 through 2006 audit. Brocade is still under examination by the IRS for its domestic federal income tax return for the fiscal years 2007 and 2008. In addition, Foundry’s California income tax returns for calendar years 2006 and 2007 are currently being examined by the California Franchise Tax Board. All these examination cycles remain open as of October 29, 2011. Brocade resolved its California income tax audit for the years ended October 25, 2003 and October 30, 2004. To the extent carryforwards from these years are used in the future, the California Franchise Tax Board has the right to audit the carryforward amounts. The SEC also periodically reviews Brocade’s public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to Brocade’s historical financial results. The IRS is contesting Brocade’s transfer pricing for the cost sharing and buy-in arrangements with its foreign subsidiaries. Brocade appealed the Revenue Agent’s Report to the Appeals Office of the IRS for the fiscal years under examination through 2008. The IRS may make similar claims against Brocade’s transfer pricing arrangements in future examinations. Audits by the IRS are subject to inherent uncertainties and an unfavorable outcome could occur, such as fines or penalties. The occurrence of an unfavorable outcome in any specific period could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s results of operations for that period or future periods. The expense of defending and resolving such an audit may be significant. The amount of time to resolve an audit is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from Brocade’s day-to-day business operations, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade is subject to various environmental and other regulations governing product safety, materials usage, packaging and other environmental impacts in the various countries where Brocade’s products are sold. For example, many of Brocade’s products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead, mercury, 26 Table of Contents hexavalent chromium, cadmium and other substances, and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of Brocade’s products when they have reached the end of their useful life. For example, in Europe, substance restrictions apply to products sold, and certain of Brocade’s partners require compliance with these or more stringent requirements. In addition, recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements apply to products Brocade sells in Europe. China has also enacted similar legislation with similar requirements for Brocade’s products or its partners. Despite Brocade’s efforts to ensure that its products comply with new and emerging requirements, Brocade cannot provide absolute assurance that its products will, in all cases, comply with such requirements. If Brocade’s products do not comply with the substance restrictions under local environmental laws, Brocade could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions and contract damage claims. In addition, Brocade could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into one or more jurisdictions and required to recall and replace any non-compliant products already shipped, which would disrupt its ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories, and harm to Brocade’s business and customer relationships. Brocade’s suppliers may also fail to provide it with compliant materials, parts and components despite Brocade’s requirement to do so, which could impact Brocade’s ability to timely produce compliant products and, accordingly, could disrupt its business. Business interruptions could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade’s operations and the operations of its suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, earthquake, tsunami, nuclear reactor leak, hurricane, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond Brocade’s control. For example, a substantial portion of Brocade’s facilities, including its corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. Brocade does not have multiple site capacity for all of its services in the event of any such occurrence. In the event of a major earthquake, such as the recent events in Japan, Brocade could experience business interruption, destruction of facilities and loss of life. Brocade carries a limited amount of earthquake insurance, which may not be sufficient to cover earthquake-related losses, and has not set aside funds or reserves to cover other potential earthquake-related losses. Additionally, major public health issues such as an outbreak of a pandemic or epidemic may interrupt business operations in those geographic regions affected by that particular health issue. In addition, one of Brocade’s contract manufacturers has a major facility located in an area that is subject to hurricanes. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Brocade, its suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers, shipments could be delayed and Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Despite Brocade’s implementation of network security measures, its servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with its computer systems. Brocade may not carry sufficient insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Brocade is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that could adversely affect its operating results. Brocade is a party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits brought against Brocade, or legal actions initiated by Brocade, can often be expensive and time-consuming. Unfavorable outcomes from these claims and/or lawsuits could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations, or financial condition, and Brocade could incur substantial monetary liability and/or be required to change its business practices. Brocade has incurred substantial indebtedness that decreases Brocade’s business flexibility and access to capital, and increases its borrowing costs, which may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. As of October 29, 2011, Brocade owed $600 million of senior secured notes and approximately $190 million under the Senior Secured Credit Facility (see Note 9, “Borrowings,” of the Notes to Consolidated 27 Table of Contents Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this From 10-K). The financial and other covenants agreed to by Brocade in connection with such indebtedness and the increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of Brocade in comparison to that of Brocade on a historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing Brocade’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs, and may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. This indebtedness may also adversely affect Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital or incur certain liens, including without limitation, funding acquisitions or repurchasing Brocade stock. In addition, Brocade’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the applicable debt financing agreements, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default. If any of Brocade’s debt is accelerated, Brocade may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. The current debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facility has a floating interest rate and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact Brocade’s financial results. The mandatory debt repayment schedule on the Senior Secured Credit Facility may negatively impact Brocade’s cash position and reduce Brocade’s financial flexibility. In addition, any negative changes by rating agencies to Brocade’s credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of Brocade’s debt and equity securities and Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital. Provisions in Brocade’s charter documents, customer agreements and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or mergers that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • Limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • Prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with Brocade, and Brocade’s agreements with certain of Brocade’s customers require that Brocade give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain manufacturing rights following a change of control. Brocade’s various change-of-control provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 