Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business and financial performance depend on the level of activity in the natural gas and oil industries. Our operations are materially dependent upon the levels of activity in natural gas and oil exploration, development and production. More specifically, the demand for our products is closely related to the number of natural gas and oil wells completed in geologic formations where ceramic proppants are used in fracture treatments. These activity levels are affected by both short-term and long-term trends in natural gas and oil prices. In recent years, natural gas and oil prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, have experienced significant fluctuations. Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by OPEC, have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price volatility. Additionally, warmer than normal winters in North America and other weather 9 Table of Contents patterns may adversely impact the short-term demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for our products and services. A prolonged reduction in natural gas and oil prices would depress the level of natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and well completions activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if new processes are developed to replace hydraulic fracturing. Substantially all of our products are proppants used in the completion and re-completion of natural gas and oil wells through the process of hydraulic fracturing. The development of new processes for the completion of natural gas and oil wells leading to a reduction in or discontinuation of the use of the hydraulic fracturing process could cause a decline in demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by decreased demand for ceramic proppant or the development by our competitors of effective alternative proppants. Ceramic proppant is a premium product capable of withstanding higher pressure and providing more highly conductive fractures than mined sand, which is the most commonly used proppant type. Although we believe that the use of ceramic proppant generates higher production rates and more favorable production economics than mined sand, a significant shift in demand from ceramic proppant to mined sand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development and use of effective alternative proppant could also cause a decline in demand for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon, and receive a significant percentage of our revenues from, a limited number of key customers. During 2007, our largest customers were, in alphabetical order, BJ Services Company, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. and Schlumberger Limited, three of the largest participants in the worldwide petroleum pressure pumping industry. Although the end users of our products are numerous operators of natural gas and oil wells that hire pressure pumping service companies to hydraulically fracture wells, these three customers accounted collectively for approximately 62% of our 2007 revenues. We generally supply our domestic pumping service customers with products on a just-in-time basis, with transactions governed by individual purchase orders. Continuing sales of product depend on our direct customers and the end user well operators being satisfied with product quality, availability and delivery performance. Although we believe our relations with our customers and the major well operators are satisfactory, a material decline in the level of sales to any one of our major customers due to unsatisfactory product performance, delivery delays or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain patents. We own five United States patents, three Russian patents, one Singapore patent and one Argentinean patent relating to ceramic proppant. These patents generally cover the manufacture and use of some of our products. The U.S. patents expire at various times in the years 2009 through 2023, with one key patent expiring in 2009. We believe that these patents have been and will continue to be important in enabling us to compete in the market to supply proppant to the natural gas and oil industry. There can be no assurance that our patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors in the future or will provide us with any competitive advantage, or that other companies will not be able to market functionally similar products without violating our patent rights. In addition, if our patents are challenged, there can be no assurance that they will be upheld. The entry of additional competitors into the market to supply ceramic proppant following expiration of our U.S. patent rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. In addition to patent rights, the Company uses a significant amount of trade secrets, or “know-how,” and other proprietary information and technology in the conduct of its business. Although the Company does not believe that it is infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others by using such proprietary information and technology, it is possible that such a claim will be asserted against the Company in the future. In the event any third party makes a claim against us for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of a third party, such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. In addition, the Company could experience loss or cancellation of customer orders, experience product shipment delays, or be subject to significant liabilities to third parties. If our products were found to infringe on a third party’s proprietary rights, the Company could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to continue selling its products. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which could seriously harm our business. Involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and expertise could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business. We operate in an increasingly competitive market. We compete with other principal suppliers of ceramic proppant, as well as with suppliers of sand and resin-coated sand for use as proppant, in the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and oil wells. The proppant market is highly competitive and no one supplier is dominant. The expiration of key patents owned by the Company may result in additional competition in the market for ceramic proppant. Major oilfield service companies offer or are developing competing fracture mapping and reservoir monitoring services. A number of major oilfield service companies are actively attempting to develop or presently market fracture mapping and reservoir monitoring services that compete with those offered by Pinnacle. A number of these companies are larger and have more resources than the Company. If one or more of these companies develops and markets fracture mapping or reservoir monitoring services that effectively compete with those offered by Pinnacle, the revenues and net income of the Company could be adversely affected. Significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of natural gas is unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Natural gas is a significant component of our direct manufacturing costs and price escalations will likely increase our operating expenses and can have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We operate in a competitive marketplace and may not be able to pass through all of the increased costs that could result from an increase in the cost of natural gas. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Moreover, as discussed in “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we received two NOVs from the State of Georgia Environmental Protection Division (“EPD”) during 2007. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. We use some hazardous substances and generate certain industrial wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become 11 Table of Contents subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. International revenues accounted for approximately 34%, 34% and 40% of our total revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • currency rate fluctuations, convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to risks associated with our production facilities in Luoyang, China, and Kopeysk, Russia. The legal systems in both China and Russia are still developing and are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in both countries could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of each country’s law. Further, if manufacturing in either region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales and/or profitability could be negatively impacted. Undetected defects in Pinnacle’s fracture simulation software could adversely affect its business. Despite extensive testing, Pinnacle’s software could contain defects, bugs or performance problems. If any of these problems are not detected, the Company could be required to incur extensive development costs or costs related to product recalls or replacements. The existence of any defects, errors or failures in Pinnacle’s software products may subject Pinnacle to liability for damages, delay the development or release of new products and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of Pinnacle’s software products or related services, any one of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant failure of our computer systems or networks in connection with the implementation of new enterprise software could adversely affect our business. We plan to implement new enterprise resources planning software during 2008. We plan to use internal resources, as well as the software supplier and other outside software consultants, to implement the software. To mitigate the risks associated with the implementation, we have installed a full hardware and software test environment, separate from our operating environment, to thoroughly test and validate the new software. The test environment may not completely match the operating environment, thereby reducing the accuracy of our tests. While we have a detailed implementation plan, all software implementations of this complexity have inherent risks, 12 Table of Contents including, without limitation, potential interruptions in service that could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers and customers. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly. The market price of the Company’s common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly, in response to various factors and events, including the following: • the liquidity of the market for our common stock; • differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • new statutes or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing statutes and regulations affecting our business; • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • broad market fluctuations. Our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements we make. Some of the statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to trends in the natural gas and oil industries, the demand for ceramic proppant and our performance in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” sections of this Form 10-K. In addition, we have made and may continue to make forward-looking statements in other filings with the SEC, and in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. (See “Business — Forward-Looking Information.”) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 