ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties. Seasonal Fluctuations in Sales and Earnings Affect Our Quarterly Results. The Company’s sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. Historically the Company’s highest sales and earnings have occurred in the second and third calendar quarters, which the Company believes is typical of the restaurant industry and consumer spending patterns in general. In addition, quarterly results have been and, in the future are likely to be, substantially affected by the timing of new restaurant openings. Because of the seasonality of our business and the impact of new restaurant openings, results for any calendar quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year and cannot be used to indicate financial performance for the entire year. Inflation May Adversely Impact Our Net Income. The Company believes that inflation impacted net income during fiscal year 2006. Substantial increases in utility expenses and property and casualty insurance costs had a marked impact on our operating results to the extent such increases could not be passed along to customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience the same inflationary impact in the future. If operating expenses increase, our management intends to attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices to the extent deemed advisable in light of competitive conditions. An Increase In Our Interest Rates May Adversely Impact Net Income. Our exposure to interest rate fluctuations is limited to our outstanding bank debt with Bank of America. The interest rate is either the prime rate or LIBOR plus a stipulated percentage. Accordingly, the Company is impacted by changes in the prime rate and LIBOR. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $3.3 million outstanding on our credit facility with Bank of America. The Company is in compliance with the debt convenants as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the Company also had $500,000 in notes which have a fixed interest rate of 7.0% (See Note 3 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company prepaid $2.5 million in fixed rate notes on March 31, 2006 by borrowing from our Bank of America credit facility. Our Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Borrow. Under our current credit agreement with Bank of America, the Company is subject to certain reporting requirements and financial covenants, including requirements that the Company maintain various financial ratios. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants, as amended on March 29, 2007 and made effective December 31, 2006. Although the Company is currently in compliance with such financial covenants, an erosion of its business could place it out of compliance in future periods. Potential remedies for the lender if the Company is not in compliance include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens. See “Note 3, Long-term Debt, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage has remained at $5.15 per hour since September 1, 1997 but will very likely be increased during 2007. The minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to the extent that the Company cannot increase menu prices. 11 Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. The Company’s profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our produce, which is purchased locally by each restaurant, the Company relies on Glazier Foods Company as the primary distributor of our ingredients. Glazier Foods Company is a family owned company that is part of a cooperative of independent food distributors (Unipro) located throughout the nation. The Company has an exclusive contract with Glazier Foods Company on terms and conditions which it believes are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Any increase in distribution prices by Glazier Foods Company could cause the Company’s food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond the Company’s control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect food costs. The Company may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through its purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact its revenues and results of operations. Rising Insurance Costs Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. The Company is insured against a variety of uncertainties. While the cost of certain insurance coverages increased in 2006, it was able to negotiate lower premium costs for other insurance coverages, and in general, was able to minimize the overall increase and impact of all total insurance costs to the Company. Nevertheless, the increase in property and casualty premiums did have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability in fiscal year 2006. Each year, the Company renews its insurance coverages. While the Company tries to be proactive in its efforts to control insurance costs, market forces beyond its control may thwart its ability to manage these costs. The Company expects insurance premiums for property and casualty insurance to continue to increase in light of the impact of hurricanes on the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. Recent Changes in Our Senior Management May Be Disruptive to Our Business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management. On December 1, 2006, Lou Neeb agreed to serve and was appointed our interim Chief Executive Officer, and Lou Porry has been appointed as our Chief Operating Officer (following the departure of Curt Glowacki, our former President and CEO, in December 2006). We are conducting a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. These changes in our senior management may prove disruptive to our business and there may be uncertainty among our investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. If we are unable to identify and retain an effective permanent Chief Executive Officer, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our Small Restaurant Base and Geographic Concentration Make Our Operations More Susceptible to Local Economic Conditions. The results achieved to date by the Company’s relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area. Because of its relatively small restaurant base, an unsuccessful new restaurant could have a more significant effect on its results of operations than would be the case in a company owning more restaurants. Additionally, given the Company’s present geographic concentration (all of its company-owned units are currently in Texas, especially along the Gulf Coast region, and in Oklahoma, Louisiana and Michigan), results of operations may be adversely affected by economic or other conditions in the region, such as hurricanes, and any adverse publicity in the region relating to its restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on its overall sales than might be the case if its restaurants were more broadly dispersed. Our Management and Directors Hold a Majority of the Common Stock. Approximately 66.0% of our Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock are beneficially owned or held by Larry N. Forehand, The D3 Family Funds (represented by director Cara Denver), Michael D. Domec and Louis P. Neeb, directors and/or executive officers or affiliates thereof. As a result, these individuals have substantial control over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. The Company competes within each market against other family dining concepts, as well as quick service and casual dining concepts, for customers, employees and franchisees. Several of the Company’s competitors operate more restaurants and have significantly greater financial resources and longer operating histories than the Company does. The Company’s inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in its markets could prevent it from increasing or sustaining its revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 Changes in General Economic and Political Conditions Affect Consumer Spending and May Harm Our Revenues and Operating Results. The United States experienced an economic expansion throughout most of 2006, including Texas where the majority of our restaurants operate. The forecast for 2007 is more cautious, especially for the restaurant casual dining segment, in which several concepts have been experiencing declining same-store sales for the last two quarters. A few economic conditions that could impact the economy and our operating results are: rising fuel and energy costs could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending; a decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues. Additionally, the continued responses to the terrorist attacks on the United States, possible future terrorist attacks and the conflict in Iraq and its aftermath may exacerbate current economic conditions and lead to a weakening in the economy. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in discretionary spending by our customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Implementing Our Growth Strategy May Strain Our Resources. Our ability to expand by adding Company-owned and franchised restaurants will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management and hourly employees, the availability of acceptable lease terms and adequate financing, timely construction of restaurants, the ability to obtain various government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The results achieved by our newer restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance of older, more established restaurants. The Company cannot be assured that any new restaurant that it opens will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. Further, the opening or acquiring of additional restaurants in the future will depend in part upon its ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient debt financing on favorable terms to support its expansion. The Company may not be able to open its planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The opening of additional franchised restaurants will depend, in part, upon the ability of existing and future franchisees to obtain financing or investment capital adequate to meet their market development obligations. Based on the Company’s experience in attempting to grow outside its existing markets, it has found there can be limited consumer acceptance and that the cost of such efforts can have a material adverse impact on its financial results. Shares Eligible for Future Sale Could Adversely Impact the Stock Price. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In any event, the market price of the Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. From time to time the Company is the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. The Company may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether it is liable. The Company is also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the Company that could have a materially adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to state “dramshop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Although the Company carries liquor liability coverage as part of its existing comprehensive general liability insurance, it may still be subject to a judgment in excess of its insurance coverage and it may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. 13 Compliance with Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses. Keeping up-to-date and in compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. The Company remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, it intends to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 