Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders might lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of Xifaxan and our other marketed products might be less than expected. Following completion of our acquisition of Santarus, we currently actively market and sell more than 20 primary products. We expect Xifaxan, which was launched in mid-2004 for the treatment of TD, and approved and launched in March 2010 for the treatment of HE, to continue to be our most significant source of revenue in the future. If sales of our marketed products decline or if we experience product returns significantly in excess of estimated amounts recorded, particularly with respect to Xifaxan, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community will depend upon a number of factors including: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, and including any generic or OTC competitors; • perceptions by physicians and other members of the healthcare community regarding the safety and efficacy of our products; • price increases, and the price of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • patient and physician demand; 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or other drugs in our class; • the results of product development efforts for new indications; • the scope and timing of additional marketing approvals and favorable reimbursement programs for expanded uses; • the availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the products; and • our success in getting other companies to distribute our products outside of the U.S. gastroenterology, hepatology and colorectal surgery markets. Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses. Development of our products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. To market a new drug in the U.S., we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of an NDA or a BLA. An NDA or BLA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable product candidate. The FDA’s regulatory review of NDAs and BLAs is becoming increasingly focused on product safety attributes, and even if approved, our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations. In addition, the FDA’s large workload has led to delays in its review of NDA submissions, which could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell product candidates for which we have not yet received regulatory approval. Failure can occur at any stage of clinical testing. The clinical study process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans or effective for their intended uses. Our clinical tests must comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, including a requirement that they be conducted in accordance with good clinical practices. We may encounter delays based on our inability to timely enroll enough patients to complete our clinical studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after showing promising results in earlier studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical studies, we may decide to discontinue development of a product candidate. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend clinical studies at any time if the patients participating in the studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our applications to conduct the clinical studies or in the conduct of our studies. Regulatory approval of an NDA or a BLA is difficult, time-consuming and expensive to obtain. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for NDA or BLA approval varies depending on the drug, the disease or the condition that the drug is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular drug. We could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies, CMC studies or clinical studies. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: • the drug is not effective; • patients experience severe side effects during treatment; • patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected; • drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or • we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. In addition, before the FDA approves one of our investigational drugs, the FDA may choose to conduct an inspection of one or more clinical or manufacturing sites. These inspections may be conducted by the FDA both at U.S. sites as well as overseas. Any restrictions on the ability of FDA investigators to travel overseas to conduct such inspections, either because of financial or other reasons including political unrest, disease outbreaks or terrorism, could delay the inspection of overseas sites and consequently delay FDA approval of our investigational drugs. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements To market drugs outside the U.S., we and current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Regulatory approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods, including obtaining reimbursement approval in select markets. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. The FDA may require significant additional clinical testing for our product candidates, and we may not receive regulatory approval for some or all of these product candidates. In addition to the general development and regulatory risks described above, each of our investigational drugs is subject to additional risks that may cause us to incur significant additional costs and the FDA, or applicable foreign regulator, may ultimately refuse to approve of one or more of our product candidates. If we experience delays or setbacks for any reason, our product development costs will increase and we may decide to abandon a product candidate entirely. If any of our product candidates fail to receive regulatory approval, we will have incurred significant expenses without the possibility of generating revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In August 2010, the FDA accepted our NDA for rifaximin for IBS, and gave us an action date of December 7, 2010. In October 2010, the FDA informed us it was extending the action date by three months to provide for a full review and extended our action date to March 7, 2011. We received a CRL on March 7, 2011. The FDA deemed that the Xifaxan 550 mg sNDA was not ready for approval, primarily due to a newly expressed need for retreatment information. We initiated enrollment in a retreatment trial in the first quarter of 2012, but there is no assurance that the FDA will approve rifaximin for IBS in a timely manner, or at all. On July 27, 2012, the FDA issued a CRL following the FDA’s review of an sNDA for Relistor SI for the treatment of OIC in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. The CRL requested additional clinical data. In October 2012, Salix and Progenics held an End-of-Review meeting with the Division of Gastroenterology and Inborn Errors Products to better understand the contents of the CRL. The Division expressed a concern that there might be a risk associated with the chronic use of mu-opioid antagonists in patients that are taking opioids for chronic pain. In order to understand this potential risk, the Division has communicated that a very large, well-controlled, chronic administration trial will have to be conducted to assess the safety of any mu-opioid antagonist prior to market approval for the treatment of patients with OIC who are taking opioids for chronic, non-cancer pain. We have since had additional discussions with the Division and expressed the view that the post-marketing, clinical and preclinical data currently available adequately demonstrate an appropriate and expected safety profile sufficient to permit the approval of the sNDA and filed a formal appeal to that effect. The FDA initially planned to convene an Advisory Committee on March 10-11, 2014 regarding this sNDA, but postponed the date of the meeting due to scheduling conflicts. The FDA intends to seek input from this Advisory Committee prior to answering our formal appeal to the CRL and has stated that it will take action under the appeal within 30 days after receiving input from the Advisory Committee. Based on the results of this meeting, we believe we might terminate our development program for Relistor SI for the treatment of OIC in chronic non-cancer pain. We remain hopeful that a path forward can lead to the expansion of the use of this new and alternative therapy to treat OIC in patients suffering from chronic pain; however, depending on the results of our discussions with the Division, we believe we might terminate our development program for Relistor SI for the treatment of OIC in chronic non-cancer pain. We are currently evaluating the Relistor Oral program and currently believe we will continue this program. However, additional information and additional guidance from the FDA could result in the termination of the Relistor Oral program. There is no assurance the FDA will approve Relistor SI or Relistor Oral for the treatment of OIC in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain in a timely manner, or at all. Regulatory approvals, even if granted, might entail ongoing requirements or restrictions on marketing. These requirements or restrictions, or inquiries into our marketing practices, could increase our expenses and limit revenue. Regulatory approvals might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or limit how or to whom we can sell our products. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and other federal and state authorities. For example, in 2008, the FDA required us to put 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements a “black box” warning on the OsmoPrep and Visicol labels regarding potential kidney damage that could result from their use, and a “black box” warning for Metozolv regarding tardive dyskensia which could result from its use. We believe these warnings contributed to reduced sales of those products, and they could limit future sales of those products. With regard to OsmoPrep and Visicol, following consultation with the FDA, we also developed a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, including a medication guide. We have conducted post-marketing clinical trials as part of this strategy. In December 3011, the FDA agreed that a REMS was no longer required for OsmoPrep and Visicol. In addition, we periodically receive inquiries from authorities, including specifically the Office of Prescription Drug Promotion of the FDA, or OPDP, formerly known as the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications, regarding compliance with marketing and other regulations. Responding to inquiries from authorities can be costly and divert the time and attention of our senior management from our business operations and result in increased legal expenses. The laws and regulations regarding off-label promotion and the authorities’ interpretation of them might increase our expenses, impair our ability to effectively market our products, and limit our revenue. On February 1, 2013, our wholly owned subsidiary Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents regarding our sales and promotional practices for Xifaxan, Relistor and Apriso. The Company is in the process of responding to the subpoena and intends to cooperate fully with the subpoena and related government investigation, which has and will continue to increase our legal expenses, and might require management time and attention. Currently, we cannot predict or determine the timing or outcome of this inquiry or its impact on financial condition or results of operations. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection, which could result in substantial costs to us and negatively affect our revenues by impacting our pricing and sales volume as well as royalties and other payments owed to us by third parties. The intellectual property rights protecting our products might not afford us with meaningful protection from generic and other competition. In addition, because our strategy is to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products which typically have been discovered and initially researched by others, future products might have limited or no remaining patent protection due to the time elapsed since their discovery. Competitors could also design around any of our intellectual property or otherwise design competitive products that do not infringe our intellectual property. Any litigation in which we become involved to enforce intellectual property rights could result in substantial cost to us. In addition, claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could be costly. Our patent or other proprietary rights related to our products might conflict with the current or future intellectual property rights of others. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, might be necessary to defend any patents to which we have rights and our other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of patent and intellectual property claims is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling one or more of our products. We might not be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology that we require to conduct our business, or, if obtainable, that technology might not be available at a reasonable cost. Upon patent expiration, our drugs could be subject to generic competition, which could negatively affect our pricing and sales volume. As previously disclosed, this has already happened to Colazal, which had been our largest selling drug prior to 2008. See Part I. Item 1. “Business—Patents and Proprietary Rights” for additional information about the existing patent protection for our and Santarus’s products. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with collaborative partners, employees and consultants. These agreements might be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently developed by others. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Intense competition might render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in our business is intense and characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Technological developments by competitors, regulatory approval for marketing competitive products, including potential generic or over-the-counter products, or superior marketing resources possessed by competitors could adversely affect the commercial potential of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Generic competition is an increasing risk, as we have experienced with Colazal and Pepcid, and with challenges to our bowel-cleansing products’ intellectual property noted above. We believe that there are numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including large well-known pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research groups throughout the world, engaged in research and development efforts with respect to pharmaceutical products targeted at gastrointestinal diseases and conditions addressed by our current and potential products. In particular, we are aware of products in research or development by competitors that address the diseases being targeted by our products. Developments by others might render our current and potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competitors might be able to complete the development and regulatory approval process sooner and, therefore, market their products earlier than we can. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and development capabilities than we do. For example, many large, well-capitalized companies already offer products in the United States and Europe that target the indications for: • Xifaxan for HE, including lactulose (various manufacturers); • Xifaxan for TD, including ciprofloxacin, commonly known as Cipro (Bayer); • Apriso, including Asacol and Delzicol (Warner Chilcott plc, or Warner Chilcott), sulfasalazine (Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, or Pfizer), Dipentum (Alaven), Pentasa and once-a-day Lialda (Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, or Shire) and three generic balsalazide disodium capsule products; • OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, including Colyte (Meda Pharmaceuticals), Golytely (Braintree Laboratories, Inc., or Braintree), Halflytely (Braintree), SuPrep (Braintree), and Nulytely (Braintree), Trilyte (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC, or Alaven) and Prepopik (Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), as well as potential generics from Novel or others; • Relistor for OIC, including OTC laxatives (various manufacturers), Amitiza (Sucampo), Kristalose (Cumberland), and Entereg (Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.); • Solesta, including various OTC antidiarrheals, fiber, stool softeners and laxatives (various manufacturers), biofeedback, the medical device Inter Stim (Medtronic) and sphincteroplasty surgery; • Metozolv ODT, including Reglan (Ani Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), and various generics; • Uceris, including Asacol and Delzicol (Warner Chilcott), Lialda and Pentasa (Shire), Remicade (Janssen) and Humira (AbbVie Inc., or AbbVie); • Zegerid, including Nexium (AstraZeneca plc), Aciphex (Eisai Inc.) and Dexilant (Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Takeda) and various generics and OTI PPI products; • Glumetza, including Fortamet (Andrx Laboratories LLC), Glucophage and Glucophage XR (Bristol Myers Squibb, or BMS), various generics and other prescription diabetes treatments; • Cycloset, including Januvia (Merck), Onglyza (BMS), Byetta (Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Amylin), Victoza (Novo Nordisk Inc.), Bydureon (Amylin), Avandia (SB PharmCo), Actos (Takeda), Amaryl (Sanofi Aventis), Glynase (Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc.) and various branded and generic metformin products; and • Fenoglide, including Trico (AbbVie), Antara (Lupin Atlantis), Lipofen (Cipher Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Lopid (Pfizer), Trilipix (AbbVie) and other prescription treatments for primary hyperlipidemia, mixed dyslipidemia and hypertriglyceridemia (such as statins and niacin). In addition, other products are in research or development by competitors that address the diseases and diagnostic procedures being targeted by these and our other products. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to integrate Santarus or other acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. Our strategy is to identify and acquire rights to products that we believe have potential for near-term regulatory approval or are already approved, through the purchase or license of products and purchase of companies. Our integration of the operations of acquired products and businesses, including Santarus, which we acquired on January 2, 2014, and Oceana, which we acquired in December 2011 and which includes foreign employees and operations, requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time. In addition, acquisitions may result in our assumption of unknown and/or unexpected, and perhaps material, liabilities. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions, including the acquisition of Santarus, include the strength of the acquired companies’ or products’ underlying technology, our ability to execute our business strategy, results of clinical trials, regulatory approvals and reimbursement levels of the acquired products and related procedures, our ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects and retain key employees, and our ability to achieve financial and operational synergies with our acquired companies and products, such as by increasing sales of our products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of these acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses or products we acquire will become profitable or remain so or that we will realize that operational cost savings or other expected synergies of an acquisition. If an acquisition is not successful, we may record related asset impairment charges in the future. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs in connection with our acquisition of Santarus. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining our operations with Santarus’s operations. These costs and expenses include the incurrence of $1.95 billion of new indebtedness, financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, reorganization and restructuring costs, severance/employee benefit-related expenses, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the acquisition. While both we and Santarus have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with our acquisition of Santarus, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. We also may incur additional unanticipated costs in connection with the acquisition of Santarus that we may not recoup. These costs and expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the cost savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale, other efficiencies and cost savings. Although we expect that these savings will offset these integration and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. Uncertainties associated with our acquisition of Santarus may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise affect our future operations. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain our key employees. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain us. As a result, we may not retain key employees to the same extent that we and Santarus have been able to retain their own employees in the past, which could have a negative impact on the our business. If key employees depart, the integration of Santarus may be more difficult and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We have been in the past and might continue to be subjected to product liability claims that arise through the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. For example, we are currently and might continue to be subject to a number of product liability claims relating to OsmoPrep and Visicol in connection with their “black box” 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements label warnings. We intend to defend these claims vigorously. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we settled a number of outstanding OsmoPrep and Visicol lawsuits and were notified by our insurer that settlement of these claims exceeded the limits of the policies related to these claims, making us responsible for additional damages, fees and expenses, if any. As a result, we recorded a $3.5 million reserve, which is our estimate of the costs of the remaining claims of which we are aware. However, the eventual settlement of these claims could exceed this estimate, and additional claims of which we are not currently aware could be filed. We currently maintain liability coverage for both clinical trials and the commercialization of our products other than the claims discussed above, but it is possible that this coverage and any future coverage will be insufficient to satisfy any liabilities that arise. We would have to assume defense of the lawsuits and be responsible for damages, fees and expenses, if any, that are awarded against us or for amounts in excess of our product liability coverage. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. In the future, we might not be able to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or might be unable to obtain adequate coverage at all. If government and other third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our ability to derive revenues might suffer. Our success will depend in part on the extent to which government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors will pay for our products. Reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products is uncertain. We acquired our first medical devices in December 2011, one of which was launched in 2011, and we are navigating the complex medical device reimbursement system. In the United States and elsewhere, third-party payors, such as Medicaid, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the United States, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been passed in recent years, including the Affordable Care Act. Many significant changes in this legislation do not take effect until 2014. These changes to the healthcare system could increase our costs and reduce the amount we can charge for our products. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on pharmaceutical and medical device pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts, including those relating to Medicaid payments, might have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could increase costs and reduce or eliminate profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party insurance coverage might not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products might be reduced. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part on our success in in-licensing or acquiring additional pharmaceutical products or medical devices. We currently intend to in-license or acquire additional pharmaceutical products or medical devices, as we did with crofelemer and budesonide, that have been developed beyond the initial discovery phase and for which late-stage human clinical data is already available, or as we did with Relistor, Deflux and Solesta, that have already received regulatory approval. As we have grown, there are fewer of these opportunities that are large enough to have a material impact on our revenues, and we might encounter more competition from larger companies for these opportunities. These kinds of pharmaceutical products and medical devices might not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we might incur significant additional expense in connection with the development and, if approved by the FDA, marketing of these products. We are dependent on third parties to supply us with products. We rely entirely on third parties to supply us with our commercially marketed products and our products under development, and it may be difficult or impossible to obtain these products or the raw materials used to produce them. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The raw material used in production of the crofelemer drug substance, our anti-secretory agent that is approved for marketing in the United States under the trade name Fulyzaq for the treatment of HIV-associated diarrhea, grows in select countries in South America. In addition, a key raw material for Relistor grows in Tasmania. Our ability to successfully obtain raw materials is not within our control. Failure to obtain these raw materials, whether due to international, political or economic conditions or otherwise, could delay development, increase expenses, delay regulatory approval, or eventually prevent us from generating revenue from additional indications for crofelemer or Relistor, if approved, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Likewise, interruption of supply of any of our other products, whether for clinical use or commercial use, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have any manufacturing facilities and are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products. We own no manufacturing facilities, and we have limited capabilities in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We do not generally expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of products, but instead contract with and rely on third-party vendors for these services. A limited number of contract manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our marketed products and our product candidates. Our manufacturers must comply with U.S. regulations, including cGMP regulations relating to manufacturing, packaging, documentation, quality control and quality assurance, and their facilities must be inspected and approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies on an ongoing basis. We may be subject to serious consequences if our manufacturers are found to have deficiencies in their manufacturing processes, including potential delays in the regulatory approval process for our drug candidates and recalls of our commercialized products. For example, in April 2010 we received a CRL from the FDA related to our NDA for balsalazide disodium tablets. The sole issue raised in this letter concerned a deficiency of the manufacturing facility for this application, which delayed FDA approval almost two years. Given our ongoing dependence on third-party vendors for supply of material for use in clinical trials and for commercial product, our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: • the manufacture of products might be difficult to scale up when required and result in delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products; • some of our contracts contain purchase commitments that require us to make minimum purchases that might exceed our needs or limit our ability to negotiate with other manufacturers, which might increase costs; • the cost of manufacturing certain products might make them prohibitively expensive; • delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change in manufacturers could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; • manufacturers are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by the third-party manufacturers; • if we need to change manufacturers, transfers of technical expertise would be required which would include educating the new manufacturer in the processes necessary for the production of our products, which might not be successful; and • if we need to change manufacturers, FDA and comparable foreign regulators might require additional testing and compliance inspections prior to the new manufacturer being qualified for the production of our products. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including: • delays, warning letters and fines; • product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; • refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; • total or partial suspension of production; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; • damage to our reputation; and • product liability claims, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, the occurrence of manufacturing-related compliance issues could require subsequent withdrawal of the drug approval, reformulation of the drug product, additional testing or changes in labeling of the finished product. Any delay, interruption or cessation of production by our third-party manufacturers or strategic partners of our commercial products or product candidates, or their respective materials and components, as a result of any of the above factors or otherwise, may limit our ability to meet demand for commercial products and/or delay ongoing clinical trials, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our business and industry are highly regulated and scrutinized, any failure to follow such regulations could result in litigation or government enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business and industry are highly regulated and scrutinized, and subject to litigation risks, including product liability risks described above and the risk of government enforcement actions. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations, including but not limited to, health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, other state and federal laws and regulations, and, with respect to our international operations, U.S. laws such as the FCPA, local laws such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and various foreign laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure or alleged failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. In recent years, there has been a heightened risk of governmental investigations into pharmaceutical companies’ sales and promotional practices for their products, including off-label uses, as evidenced by recent enforcement activity and/or pronouncements by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general. Matters underlying governmental investigations may also be the subject of private litigation. See the risk factor entitled “Regulatory approvals, even if granted, might entail ongoing requirements or restrictions on marketing. These requirements or restrictions, or inquiries into our marketing practices, could increase our expenses and limit revenue” above, and Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information about a pending federal government investigation concerning our sales and promotional practices for Xifaxan, Relistor and Apriso. If we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in this investigation, or any other investigation or litigation, we could incur significant damages, fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds, and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third-party manufacturers may also become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant, and the costs of complying with climate change laws could also be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations could subject us to substantial fines, penalties or environmental remediation costs, or cause us to lose permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, any of which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to complex laws and regulations governing our employees and contractors and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to our relationships with our employees and contractors are complex, extensive and fluid, and are subject to evolving interpretations by regulatory and judicial authorities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant damages, orders and/or fines and therefore could adversely affect our operations. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our results of operations might fluctuate from period to period, and a failure to meet the expectations of investors or the financial community at large could result in a decline in our stock price. As they have in the past, our results of operations might fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis due to, among other factors: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • the level of revenue generated by commercialized products, including potential increased purchases of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of potential price increases or introductions of new dosages or bottle sizes, and subsequent lower than expected revenue as the inventory is used; • the timing of any up-front payments that might be required in connection with any future acquisition of product rights; • the timing of milestone payments that might be required to our current or future licensors; • fluctuations in our development and other costs in connection with ongoing product development programs; • the level of marketing and other expenses required in connection with product launches and ongoing product growth; • the timing of the acquisition and integration of businesses, assets, products and technologies; and • general and industry-specific business and economic conditions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of our credit agreement, other existing or future debt instruments and the indenture governing the 2021 Notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreement and the indenture governing the 2021 Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We are a holding company that depends on cash flows from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company conducting substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, and all of our consolidated operating assets are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we rely on the operations of our subsidiaries to fund payments on our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from them. We and certain of our subsidiaries have entered into agreements limiting the ability of these subsidiaries to incur consensual encumbrances or restrictions 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, but these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile and might continue to be, making owning our stock risky. Between January 1, 2011 and February 24, 2014, the price of a share of our common stock varied from a low of $25.64 to a high of $108.87. Our stock price increased or decreased by 5% or more on 15 days in 2011, 4 days in 2012 and 5 days in 2013. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the performance of particular companies, including as a result of the current credit and economic crisis. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in the past been and can in the future be expected to be especially volatile. Announcements of strategic transactions, prescription trends, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, generic approvals, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products, economic and other external factors, period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, and stock market speculation regarding any of these factors, might have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover or changes in our current directors or management that stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover or other change of control of us or the removal of our current directors and management, even if these events could be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions, which could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock, include the following: • Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a stockholder, or stockholders, controlling a majority of our common stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders’ meeting. • Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. • Only our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill vacancies created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of directors, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions might discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 