Item 1A. Risk Factors Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent Brocade from increasing or maintaining revenue, profitability and cash flows with respect to its networking solutions. The networking market is becoming increasingly competitive. While Cisco maintains a dominant position in the Ethernet networking market, other companies have strengthened their networking portfolio through acquisitions, including HP’s acquisition of 3Com and IBM’s acquisition of Blade Network Technologies. Both HP and IBM are important OEM partners for Brocade in the Fibre Channel switching market, yet also are competitive with Brocade in other respects. EMC, one of Brocade’s top OEM customers in terms of Fibre Channel sales and a go-to-market and technology partner since 1997, has formed a coalition with Cisco and VMware called the “Virtual Computing Environment” (VCE) through which VCE and its business partners would sell packaged “cloud computing” and data center virtualization solutions. Further, Cisco and EMC announced a joint venture, which is designed to serve as a support and services arm of VCE. The above-referenced acquisition and business partnerships demonstrate the increasingly complex nature of relationships within the networking industry. Other competitors in the Ethernet networking market include Arista Networks, Alcatel-Lucent, Enterasys Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Force10 Networks, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc. and most recently, Oracle Corporation through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Brocade also competes with Cisco and QLogic Corporation in the Fibre Channel switching market and with QLogic and Emulex Corporation in the server connectivity or HBA market. Some of these competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Brocade’s competitors could also adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Brocade. Brocade believes that competition based on price may become more aggressive than it has traditionally experienced. As a result of these factors, Brocade’s competitors could also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than Brocade and, as a result, may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer or market requirements. Brocade’s failure to successfully compete in the market would harm Brocade’s business and financial results. In addition, the advent and customer adoption of new technologies such as Fibre Channel over Ethernet (“FCoE”) and Data Center Bridging (“DCB”), formerly called Converged Enhanced Ethernet (“CEE”), may displace existing solutions in actual customer implementations, leading to erosion of the total addressable market (“TAM”) for Fibre Channel products of the type that Brocade currently delivers. While Brocade offers FCoE products and has recently introduced a new family of DCB products as part of its overall networking portfolio, the potential for reduction of Fibre Channel TAM where Brocade is a market leader may harm Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade’s future revenue growth depends on its ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The market for networking solutions is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerating product introduction cycles, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Brocade’s future success depends largely upon its ability to address the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. This risk will likely become more pronounced as the networking markets become more competitive and as demand for new and improved technologies increases. Brocade has introduced a significant number of new products in the last 12 months, including products across its family of Ethernet and Data Storage networking solutions, which accounts for a substantial portion of Brocade’s revenues. Brocade has also invested significant R&D resources in developing new products based on Ethernet Fabric technology for server virtualization within data centers. Specifically, Brocade has recently 13 Table of Contents introduced the Brocade VDX Ethernet Fabric Switches powered by its Virtual Cluster Switching (“VCS”) technologies as the first products within this category. Developing new offerings requires significant upfront investments that may not result in revenue for an extended period of time, if at all. Brocade must achieve widespread market acceptance of Brocade’s new product and service offerings on a timely basis in order to realize the benefits of Brocade’s investments. Additionally, Brocade recently focused substantial resources to emphasize the Ethernet networking market through a channels strategy, including the hiring of incremental new sales persons focused primarily on Brocade’s Ethernet networking products. This focus towards the Ethernet networking market may negatively impact Brocade’s other businesses such as its Data Storage networking products because management’s attention and limited resources such as employees may be reallocated away from Brocade’s Data Storage products and towards Ethernet products instead. The success of Brocade’s product and service offerings depends on numerous factors, including its ability to: • Properly determine the market for and define new products and services; • Develop and introduce the new products and services in a timely manner; • Differentiate Brocade’s new products and services from its competitors’ technology and product offerings; • Address the complexities of interoperability of Brocade’s products with its installed base, OEM partners’ server and storage products and its competitors’ products; and • Maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. Various factors impacting market acceptance are outside of Brocade’s control, including the following: • The availability and price of competing products and alternative technologies; • The cost of certain product subcomponents, which could reduce Brocade’s gross margins; • Product qualification requirements by Brocade’s OEM partners, which can cause delays in the market acceptance; • The timing of the adoption of new industry standards relative to Brocade’s development of new technologies and products; • The ability of its OEM partners to successfully distribute, support and provide training for its products; and • Customer acceptance of Brocade’s products, including its Ethernet solutions. If Brocade is not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, its business and results of operations will likely be harmed. As Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade must also successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade faces numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. In addition, any customer uncertainty regarding the timeline for rolling out new products or Brocade’s plans for future support of existing products may negatively impact customer purchase decisions. 14 Table of Contents The prices of Brocade’s products have declined in the past and Brocade expects the prices of Brocade’s products to continue to decline, which could reduce Brocade’s revenues, gross margins and profitability. The average selling price for Brocade’s products has declined in the past, and Brocade expects it to continue to decline in the future as a result of changes in competitive pricing pressure, broader macroeconomic factors, product mix, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, the entrance of new competitors and other factors. Brocade expects that average selling prices per port for Data Storage products will continue to decline at rates consistent with historical rates of low single digits per quarter, and that average selling prices per port for Brocade’s Ethernet products will decline in the low- to mid-single digits; however, average selling prices could decline much faster. Price declines may also increase as competitors ramp up product releases that compete with Brocade’s products. Furthermore, as a result of cautious capital spending in the technology sector, coupled with broader macroeconomic factors, both Brocade and its competitors may pursue more aggressive pricing strategies in an effort to maintain or seek to increase sales levels. If Brocade is unable to offset any negative impact that changes in competitive pricing pressures, broader macroeconomic factors, product mix, increased sales discounts, enhanced marketing programs, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, or other factors may have on the average selling price of Brocade’s products by increasing the volume of products shipped or reducing product manufacturing costs, Brocade’s total revenues and gross margins will be negatively impacted. In addition, to maintain Brocade’s gross margins, Brocade must maintain or increase the number of products shipped, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and continue to reduce the manufacturing costs of Brocade’s products. While Brocade has successfully reduced the cost of manufacturing Brocade’s products in the past, Brocade may not be able to continue to reduce cost of production at historical rates. Moreover, most of Brocade’s expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, Brocade may not be able to decrease its spending quickly enough or in sufficient amounts to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, Brocade could incur losses and Brocade’s operating results and gross margins could be below expectations. Additionally, Brocade’s gross margins may be negatively affected by fluctuations in manufacturing volumes, component costs, foreign currency exchange rates, the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of distribution channels through which its products are sold. In addition, if product or related warranty costs associated with Brocade’s products are greater than previously experienced, Brocade’s gross margins may also be adversely affected. Finally, increased costs resulting from higher-than-anticipated oil prices and the volatility of the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the costs of components used in Brocade’s products and negatively affect Brocade’s gross margins. The failure to accurately forecast demand for Brocade’s products or the failure to successfully manage the production of Brocade’s products could negatively affect the supply of key components for Brocade’s products and Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. Brocade provides product forecasts to its contract manufacturers and places purchase orders with them in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to Brocade’s customers. Moreover, in preparing sales and demand forecasts, Brocade relies largely on input from its partners and its resellers and end-user customers. Therefore, if Brocade or its partners are unable to accurately forecast demand, or if Brocade fails to effectively communicate with its distribution partners about end-user demand or other time-sensitive information, the sales and demand forecasts may not reflect the most accurate, up-to-date information. If these forecasts are inaccurate, Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories. Furthermore, Brocade may not be able to identify forecast discrepancies until late in its fiscal quarter. Consequently, Brocade may not be able to make adjustments to its business model. If Brocade is unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers, or if Brocade is unable to make necessary adjustments to Brocade’s business model, revenue may be delayed or even lost to Brocade’s competitors and Brocade’s business and financial results may be harmed. If excess inventories accumulate, Brocade’s gross margins may be negatively impacted by write- downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory. In addition, Brocade may experience higher fixed costs as it expands 15 Table of Contents its contract manufacturer capabilities, which could negatively affect Brocade’s ability to react quickly if demand suddenly decreases. Brocade’s ability to accurately forecast demand also may become increasingly more difficult as Brocade enters new or adjacent markets, introduces new products, begins phasing out certain products, or acquires other companies or businesses. Forecasting demand for new or adjacent markets, particularly where the markets are not yet well-established, may be highly speculative and uncertain. For products that are nearing end of life or are being replaced by new versions, it may be difficult to forecast how quickly to decrease production on the older products and ramp up production on the new products. Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate supply of new product components and/or manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements that may negatively impact revenues, or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories that may negatively impact gross margins due to write-downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory. In addition, acquired companies or businesses may offer less visibility into demand than Brocade typically has experienced, may cause customer uncertainty regarding purchasing decisions, and may use different measures to evaluate demand that are less familiar to Brocade and thus more difficult to accurately predict. In addition, although the purchase orders placed with Brocade’s contract manufacturers are cancelable in certain circumstances, Brocade could be required to purchase certain unused material not returnable, usable by, or sold to other customers if Brocade cancels any of Brocade’s orders. This purchase commitment exposure is particularly high in periods of new product introductions and product transitions. If Brocade is required to purchase unused material from Brocade’s contract manufacturers, Brocade could incur unanticipated expenses, including write-downs for excess and/or obsolete inventory, and Brocade’s business and financial results could be negatively affected. In the past, Brocade has experienced delays in shipments of its Ethernet products from its contract manufacturers and OEMs, which in turn delayed product shipments to its customers. Brocade may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, such as insufficient quantity of product, acquisition by a competitor or business failure of any of its OEMs, any of which could harm Brocade’s business and operating results. Brocade is subject to, and may in the future be subject to other, intellectual property infringement claims and litigation that are costly to defend and/or settle, and that could result in significant damage and cost awards against Brocade and limit Brocade’s ability to use certain technologies in the future. Brocade competes in markets that are frequently subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trade secret, and/or other IP-related claims against Brocade and/or employees of Brocade. These claims may be, and have been in the past, made against Brocade’s products and services, subcomponents of its products, methods performed by its products or used in its operations, or uses of its products by its customers, or may concern Brocade’s hiring of a former employee of the third party claimant. Brocade and companies acquired by Brocade, such as Foundry, have in the past incurred, are currently incurring and will in the future incur substantial expenses to defend against such third-party claims. For instance, Brocade currently is defending patent-related lawsuits, including lawsuits originally filed against Foundry by Enterasys Networks, Inc. and Chrimar Systems, Inc. In addition, Brocade may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to Brocade agreements with suppliers, OEM and channel partners or customers. The opposing litigants and other third party asserters of such intellectual property claims may be unreasonable in their positions, or in their demands, or may simply refuse to settle, which could lead to expensive settlement payments, prolonged periods of litigation expenses, additional burden on employees or other resources and distraction from Brocade’s business initiatives and operations. In the event of an adverse determination, Brocade could incur substantial monetary liability and be prohibited from utilizing certain technology, hiring certain people, shipping or importing certain products or incorporating necessary components into Brocade’s products. Suppliers of components or OEM systems to Brocade may be unwilling to, or not be able to, defend or indemnify Brocade against third-party assertions directed at the components or systems they supply to Brocade, and may be unwilling to take licenses that would assure Brocade’s supply of such components or OEM systems. 16 Table of Contents Customers may perceive such third-party intellectual property claims as risks, and may, as a result, be less willing to do business with Brocade. Such litigation could also negatively impact Brocade’s recruiting efforts or ability to retain its employees. Any of the above scenarios could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and future business prospects. Brocade’s intellectual property rights may be infringed or misappropriated by others, and Brocade may not be able to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights. Brocade’s intellectual property rights may be infringed or misappropriated by others. In some cases, such infringement or misappropriation may be undetectable, or enforcement of Brocade’s rights may be impractical. Brocade has filed, and may in the future file, lawsuits against third parties in an effort to enforce its intellectual property rights. For instance, Brocade filed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 a patent infringement, copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation and unfair competition lawsuit against A10 Networks, Inc. and certain individuals. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that Brocade will prevail in such enforcement efforts, either on the merits, or with respect to particular relief sought, such as damages or an injunction. Further, the opposing party may attempt to prove that the asserted intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, and, if successful, may seek recompense for its attorney fees and costs. Further, the opposing party may counterclaim against Brocade, for example, for infringement of its own patents or intellectual property rights, or other intellectual property, tort or contract claims, which could lead to further expense and potential exposure for Brocade. Brocade relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, physical and operational security and contractual restrictions on disclosure, to protect its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technologies, but none of these methods of protection may be entirely reliable, due to, for instance, employee hiring and turnover, geographic dispersion of employees, technology disclosures with suppliers, customers, and partners, unpredictable events, misappropriation or negligence, operations in various countries that do not have well-established or reliable enforcement institutions or customs, and other aspects of doing business on the scale of Brocade’s operations. Brocade attempts to identify its technological developments for assessment of whether to file patent applications, but there can be no assurance that all patentable technological developments will be captured in patent applications. Further, although Brocade has patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. Further, physical and operational security can be adversely affected by employee carelessness or disregard for policies, malfeasors, or changes in technology, such as the now-near-ubiquitous availability of portable memory devices. The value, validity, and enforceability of intellectual property rights generated by Brocade’s operations, obtained from acquired companies, or purchased from third parties, are subject to many unknowns, and may not ultimately have the value originally anticipated. In addition, due to less developed intellectual property regimes in certain jurisdictions, Brocade may not be able to protect fully its intellectual property as Brocade expands its operations globally. Brocade uses several different routes to market for executing on its sales strategy including use of an OEM sales model focused on a few major OEM partners, and an expanded channel sales model. The loss of any of these OEM customers or channel partners or any other significant failure to execute on Brocade’s overall sales strategy could significantly reduce Brocade’s revenues and negatively affect Brocade’s financial results. Brocade recently began to offer its products through new and expanded channels, including through OEMs, resellers, distributors and direct. For example, Brocade recently announced that EMC, in addition to previous announcements with IBM and Dell, would sell Brocade’s Ethernet networking products. However, these new and expanded channels may not generate much, if any, revenue opportunities for Brocade. Offerings through new channels may also require Brocade to make certain significant upfront or ongoing investments. These additional costs may not be recovered or may not provide the desired return on investment if the anticipated benefits are not ultimately successful. These costs may also be larger than anticipated if the expenses associated with this new 17 Table of Contents channels strategy are greater than planned. If Brocade cannot successfully expand its sales channels, Brocade may fail to maintain or grow its business, which would negatively impact its financial results. Brocade depends on recurring purchases from a limited number of large OEM partners for a substantial portion of its revenues. As a result, these large OEM partners have a significant influence on Brocade’s quarterly and annual financial results. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, the same three customers each represented 10% or more of Brocade’s total net revenues. Brocade’s agreements with its OEM partners are typically cancelable, non-exclusive, have no minimum purchase requirements and have no specific timing requirements for purchases. Brocade’s OEM partners could also elect to eliminate, reduce, or rebalance, the amount they purchase from Brocade and/or increase the amount purchased from Brocade’s competitors. Also, one or more of Brocade’s OEM partners could elect to consolidate or enter into a strategic partnership with one of Brocade’s competitors, which could reduce or eliminate Brocade’s future revenue opportunities with that OEM partner. Brocade anticipates that a significant portion of its revenues and operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of OEM partners. The loss of any one significant OEM partner, or a decrease in the level of sales to any one significant OEM partner, or unsuccessful quarterly negotiation on key terms, conditions or timing of purchase orders placed during a quarter, would likely cause serious harm to Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade’s OEM partners evaluate and qualify Brocade’s products for a limited time period before they begin to market and sell them. Assisting Brocade’s OEM partners through the evaluation process requires significant sales, marketing and engineering management efforts on Brocade’s part, particularly if Brocade’s products are being qualified with multiple distribution partners at the same time. In addition, once Brocade’s products have been qualified, its customer agreements have no minimum purchase commitments. Brocade may not be able to effectively maintain or expand its distribution channels, manage distribution relationships successfully, or market its products through distribution partners. Brocade must continually assess, anticipate and respond to the needs of its distribution partners and their customers, and ensure that its products integrate with their solutions. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage its distribution relationships or the failure of its distribution partners to sell Brocade’s products could reduce Brocade’s revenues significantly. In addition, Brocade’s ability to respond to the needs of its distribution partners in the future may depend on third parties producing complementary products and applications for Brocade’s products. If Brocade fails to respond successfully to the needs of these groups, its business and financial results could be harmed. The loss or delay of continued orders from any of Brocade’s more significant customers, such as the U.S. government or individual agencies within the U.S. government, or companies within the financial services, education and health sectors, could also cause its revenue and profitability to suffer. For example, if Brocade is unable to offer qualified products to such government customers due to regulations and requirements with respect to country of origin designation, or if Brocade experiences governmental procurement delays due to the timing of approval of the federal budget or other reasons. Brocade’s government orders could decrease, which would negatively impact its revenue and operating results. In addition, Brocade’s ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of its products. In addition, a change in the mix of Brocade’s customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect its revenue and gross margins. Brocade is dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components, the loss of which may significantly impact results of operations. Although Brocade uses standard parts and components for its products where possible, Brocade’s contract manufacturers currently purchase, on Brocade’s behalf, several key components used in the manufacture of its products from single or limited supplier sources. Brocade’s principal single source components include its application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) and Brocade’s principal limited source components include memory, certain oscillators, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips, power supplies, programmable logic devices, printed circuit boards, certain optical components, packet processors and switching 18 Table of Contents fabrics. Brocade generally acquires these components through purchase orders and has no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing with such suppliers. If Brocade is unable to obtain these and other components when required or if Brocade experiences significant component defects, Brocade may not be able to deliver Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers in a timely manner. In addition, a challenging economic or industry environment could cause some of these sole source or limited source suppliers to delay or halt production or to go out of business or be acquired by third parties, which could result in a disruption in Brocade’s supply chain. Brocade’s supply chain could also be disrupted in a variety of other circumstances that may impact its suppliers and partners, including adverse results from intellectual property litigation or natural disasters. As a result, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. In addition, the loss of any of Brocade’s major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact Brocade’s ability to produce its products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is typically a lengthy and expensive process. If Brocade is required to change any of its contract manufacturers or if any of its contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers could be delayed and result in loss of revenues and Brocade’s competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of Brocade’s products or businesses and asset impairments. Brocade carries a substantial amount of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. The goodwill and acquired intangibles predominately relate to the Ethernet business in connection with Brocade’s acquisition of Foundry in December 2008. Brocade’s determination of fair value of long-lived assets relies on management’s assumptions of future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, Brocade may be required to realign its resources strategically and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in, or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Similarly, if management’s estimates of future operating results change or if there are changes to other assumptions, such as the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the estimate of the fair value of Brocade’s reporting units could change significantly, which could result in goodwill impairment charges. Brocade’s estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of Brocade’s carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. For example, during the three months ended May 2, 2009, Brocade recorded a non-cash $53.3 million impairment charge in connection with the decision to no longer offer Brocade’s suite of Files products. Brocade is required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings (see Note 4, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, and sensitivity analysis performed in Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Brocade concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that the Company will realize its deferred tax assets based on positive evidence of its history of profits and projections of future income. Accordingly, the Company only applies a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets relating to capital loss and investment loss carryforwards. In the event future income by jurisdiction is less than what is currently projected, Brocade may be required to apply a valuation allowance to these deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where realization of such assets are no longer more-likely-than-not (see Note 15, “Income Taxes”, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Brocade’s estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are also affected by changes in real estate market conditions. In addition, Brocade has made investments in certain private companies which could become impaired if the operating results of those companies change adversely. 19 Table of Contents Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and strategic investments, and integration of acquired companies or technologies may negatively impact Brocade’s business. Brocade has in the past acquired, or made strategic investments in, other companies, products or technologies, and Brocade expects to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Examples of recent acquisitions include Foundry in December 2008, Strategic Business Systems, Inc. in March 2008 and McDATA Corporation in January 2007. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of any of its acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in successfully integrating the acquired businesses; • Inability to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; • Revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels if existing customers alter or reduce their historical buying patterns; • Unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • Diversion of management’s attention from Brocade’s daily operations and business; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • Risks associated with entering into markets in which Brocade has limited or no prior experience; • Inability to attract and retain key employees; • Inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • Inability to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities of the combined company; • Inability to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to the combined company; • Inability to qualify the combined company’s products with OEM partners on a timely basis, or at all; • Failure to consolidate the combined company’s professional services and customer support organizations; • Inability to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems; • Failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • Assumption or incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and related obligations to service such liabilities and Brocade’s ability to satisfy financial and other negative operating covenants; • Additional costs such as increased costs of manufacturing and service costs, costs associated with excess or obsolete inventory, costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes, advisor and professional fees, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services; • Incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • Incurrence of acquisition and integration related costs, accounting charges, or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets, that could negatively impact Brocade’s operating results and financial condition; 20 Table of Contents • Potential write-down of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and/or deferred tax assets, which are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, and could significantly impact Brocade’s operating results; and • Dilution of the ownership percentage held by Brocade’s stockholders to the extent equity is used as consideration or option plans are assumed, such as in the case of the Foundry acquisition, in which approximately 125.1 million additional shares of Brocade common stock became issuable in connection with the assumption or substitution of Foundry equity awards. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that Brocade acquires, or to realize expected benefits of Brocade’s acquisitions or strategic investments, Brocade’s business and financial results would be adversely affected. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, which make predicting results of operations difficult and could adversely affect the trading price of Brocade’s stock. Information technology spending is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners or other customers will affect Brocade’s business in the future, particularly as Brocade releases new products. While Brocade’s first and fourth fiscal quarters have typically been seasonally stronger quarters than its second and third fiscal quarters, particularly for storage networking products, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. In addition, the Federal budget for government IT spending can be subject to delay and uncertainty from time to time due to political and legislative volatility, which can cause Brocade’s financial results to fluctuate unevenly and unpredictably. Uneven sales patterns are not only difficult to predict, but also can result in irregular shipment patterns that can cause shortages or underutilized capacity, increase costs due to higher inventory levels, and otherwise adversely impact inventory planning. For example, Brocade’s Ethernet networking business has experienced significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period. Orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to Brocade’s manufacturing lead times. This exposes Brocade to additional inventory risk because Brocade must order products in anticipation of expected future orders and additional sales risk if Brocade is unable to fulfill unanticipated demand. In addition, receipt of a high number of customer orders towards the end of a fiscal quarter will increase reported receivables outstanding as a fraction of reported sales and result in higher days sales outstanding. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in the future due to the factors noted above as well as other factors, including but not limited to, the following: • Disruptions, or a continued decline, in general economic conditions, particularly in the information technology industry; • Announcements of pending or completed acquisitions or other strategic transactions by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • Announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • The timing of customer orders, product qualifications and product introductions of Brocade’s partners; • Long and complex sales cycles; • Internal supply and inventory management objectives of Brocade’s OEM partners and other customers; • Brocade’s ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of its customers; 21 Table of Contents • Brocade’s ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-sourced components, including ASICs, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips and programmable logic devices; • Increases in prices of components used in the manufacture of Brocade’s products; • Variations in the mix of Brocade’s products sold and the mix of distribution channels and geographies through which they are sold; • Pending or threatened litigation, including any settlements or judgments related to such litigation; • Stock-based compensation expense that is affected by Brocade’s stock price; • Examinations by government tax authorities that may have unfavorable outcomes and subject Brocade to additional tax liabilities; • New legislation and regulatory developments, including increases to tax rates or changes to treatment of an income or expense item; and • Other risk factors detailed in this section. Accordingly, Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in future. The results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Brocade cannot assure you that in some future quarter Brocade’s revenues or operating results will not be below Brocade’s projections or the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, which could cause Brocade’s stock price to decline. The recent economic slowdown adversely affected Brocade’s operating results and financial condition and economic slowdowns in the future may have similar or greater negative impact. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions and reduced global information technology spending rates have resulted in growth rates below historical patterns and have adversely affected Brocade’s operating results. For example, the domestic and global economies recently underwent a period of significant uncertainty and slowdown, which resulted in reduced demand for information technology, including high-performance data networking solutions. In addition, the domestic and global economies could experience a prolonged slowdown or even a “double dip” recession that could further reduce demand for information technology products. Brocade is particularly susceptible to reductions in information technology spending because the purchase of IT-related products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Different geographic regions (e.g., EMEA or Japan) may experience greater economic slowdowns and/or longer recovery periods, which may adversely impact IT spending in those regions. Future delays or reductions in information technology spending, domestically and/or internationally, could harm Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, increased inventory provisions, increased production costs, lowered prices for its products and reduced sales volumes. Similarly, if Brocade’s suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials Brocade uses to manufacture its products or may offer the materials at higher prices. These events have caused, and future slowdowns may cause, reductions in Brocade’s revenue, profitability and cash flows; increased price competition and operating costs; longer fulfillment cycles; and may cause many other risks noted in this filing, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic slowdowns can also make it difficult for Brocade, its customers and its suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand. This reduced visibility could cause Brocade to produce excess products that would increase its inventory carrying costs and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products or materials used in Brocade’s products that would result in its inability to satisfy demand for its products and a loss of market share. 22 Table of Contents Brocade has extensive international operations, which subjects it to additional business risks. A significant portion of Brocade’s sales occur in international jurisdictions. In addition, Brocade’s contract manufacturers have significant operations in China. Brocade plans to continue to expand its international operations and sales activities. Brocade’s international sales of its Ethernet networking products have primarily depended on its resellers, including Pan Dacom GmbH in Europe, Stark Technology Inc. in Taiwan, Net One Systems in Japan and Samsung Corporation in Korea. The failure by international resellers to sell Brocade’s products could limit its ability to sustain and grow revenue. Maintenance or expansion of international operations involves inherent risks that Brocade may not be able to control, including: • Exposure to economic instability or fluctuations in international markets; • Reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, particularly in jurisdictions that have less developed intellectual property regimes such as China and India; • Managing research and development teams in geographically diverse locations, including teams divided between the United States and India; • Significant wage inflation in certain growing economies such as India; • Increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the appreciation of foreign currencies such as the Chinese yuan; • Supporting multiple languages; • Recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support Brocade’s products; • Complying with governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for its products; • Increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • Commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; • Multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • Longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times; • Increased costs of local labor, including labor markets in China and India; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and • Increased complexity of logistics and distribution arrangements. Failure to manage expansion effectively could seriously harm Brocade’s business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, international political instability may halt or hinder Brocade’s ability to do business and may increase Brocade’s costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, may suddenly increase international tensions. Such events may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect Brocade’s business operations or the operations of Brocade’s OEM partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers. To date, no material amount of Brocade’s international revenues and cost of revenues have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Brocade’s products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase Brocade’s product and operating costs in foreign locations (e.g., appreciation of the Chinese yuan). In the future, a larger portion of Brocade’s international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will 23 Table of Contents subject Brocade to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. In addition, Brocade may be unable to successfully hedge against any such fluctuations. Business interruptions could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade’s operations and the operations of its suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, earthquake, hurricane, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond Brocade’s control. For example, a substantial portion of Brocade’s facilities, including its corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. Brocade does not have multiple site capacity for all of its services in the event of any such occurrence. In the event of a major earthquake, Brocade could experience business interruption, destruction of facilities and loss of life. Brocade carries a limited amount of earthquake insurance, which may not be sufficient to cover earthquake-related losses, and has not set aside funds or reserves to cover other potential earthquake-related losses. Additionally, major public health issues such as an outbreak of a pandemic or epidemic may interrupt business operations in those geographic regions affected by that particular health issue. In addition, one of Brocade’s contract manufacturers has a major facility located in an area that is subject to hurricanes. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Brocade, its suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers, shipments could be delayed and Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Despite Brocade’s implementation of network security measures, its servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with its computer systems. Brocade may not carry sufficient insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Undetected software or hardware errors could increase Brocade’s costs, reduce Brocade’s revenues and delay market acceptance of Brocade’s products. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, or bugs, when first introduced or as new versions are released. Brocade’s products are becoming increasingly complex and particularly, as Brocade continues to expand its product portfolio to include software-centric products, including software licensed from third parties, errors may be found from time to time in Brocade’s products. In addition, through its acquisitions, Brocade has assumed, and may in the future assume, products previously developed by an acquired company that have not been through the same level of product development, testing and quality control processes used by Brocade, and may have known or undetected errors. Some types of errors also may not be detected until the product is installed in a heavy production or user environment. In addition, Brocade’s products are often combined with other products, including software, from other vendors, and these products often need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause Brocade to incur significant warranty and repair costs, may divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts, and may cause significant customer relations problems. Moreover, the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by another vendor’s storage, data management or Ethernet products or Brocade’s, could delay market acceptance of Brocade’s new products. If Brocade loses key talent or is unable to hire additional qualified talent, Brocade’s business may be harmed. Brocade’s success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other talent, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Brocade believes its future success will also depend, in large part, upon Brocade’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other talent, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically diverse locations. There is a limited number of qualified talent in each applicable market and competition for such employees is strong. In particular, Brocade operates in various locations with competitive labor markets including Bangalore, India and San Jose, California, as well as certain emerging labor 24 Table of Contents markets, such as the Eastern European and Latin American markets. In the past, Brocade has experienced difficulty in hiring qualified talent in areas such as ASICs, software, system and test, sales, marketing, service, key management and customer support. Any future declines in Brocade’s stock price will reduce the value of equity awards and may result in additional “underwater” stock options held by its employees. If such a decline in Brocade’s stock price were to occur, Brocade’s ability to incentivize or retain qualified talent could be negatively impacted. Brocade’s ability to retain qualified talent may also be affected by future and recent acquisitions, which may cause uncertainty and loss of key talent. The loss of the services of any of Brocade’s key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified talent in the future, or delays in hiring required talent, particularly engineers and sales talent, could delay the development and introduction of Brocade’s products or services, and negatively affect Brocade’s ability to sell its products or services. In addition, companies in the computer storage, networking and server industries whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Brocade may be subject to such claims in the future as Brocade seeks to hire additional qualified talent. Such claims could result in litigation. As a result, Brocade could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is resolved against Brocade. Brocade incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Foundry that decreases Brocade’s business flexibility and access to capital, and increases its borrowing costs, which may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. Upon completion of the acquisition of Foundry in December 2008, Brocade increased its indebtedness by approximately $1.1 billion, which is substantially greater than its indebtedness prior to the acquisition. The $1.1 billion debt was originally issued under a term loan facility. While the amount of the debt has been refinanced and reduced in part, the financial and other covenants agreed to by Brocade in connection with such indebtedness and the increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of Brocade in comparison to that of Brocade on a recent historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing Brocade’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs, and may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. The increased indebtedness may also adversely affect Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital or incur certain liens. In addition, Brocade’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the applicable debt financing agreements, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default. If any of Brocade’s debt is accelerated, Brocade may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. The current debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facility has a floating interest rate and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact Brocade’s financial results. The mandatory debt repayment schedule on the Senior Secured Credit Facility may negatively impact Brocade’s cash position and reduce Brocade’s financial flexibility. In addition, any negative changes by rating agencies to Brocade’s credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of Brocade’s debt and equity securities and Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital. Brocade’s business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements, and environmental regulations that could adversely affect Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade is subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which Brocade’s common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the FASB, the SEC, the IRS and NASDAQ, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. In addition, the Department of Treasury, the SEC and various Congressional representatives have recently proposed additional rules and regulations that may go into effect in the near future. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act was enacted. The Act included significant corporate governance and executive 25 Table of Contents compensation-related provisions and also required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Brocade is also subject to various rules and regulations of certain foreign jurisdictions, including applicable tax regulations. Brocade’s efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Similarly, any change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which Brocade does business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in Brocade’s tax expense. For example, in both the 2010 and 2011 budget proposals, the President of the United States and the U.S. Treasury Department proposed changing certain of the U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States. In August 2010, the President enacted into law certain legislation impacting the use of foreign tax credits prospectively. Brocade is evaluating the provisions, but does not expect them to have a material impact to its financial results. Other legislation has not yet been proposed or enacted, but it is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase Brocade’s U.S. income tax liability in the future. Brocade is subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. For example, Brocade is under examination by the IRS for its domestic federal income tax return for the fiscal years 2004 through 2008. In addition, Foundry’s California income tax returns for calendar years 2006 and 2007 are currently being examined by the California Franchise Tax Board. All these examination cycles remain open as of October 30, 2010. Brocade resolved its California income tax audit for the years ended October 25, 2003 and October 30, 2004. To the extent carryforwards from these years are used in the future, the California Franchise Tax Board has the right to audit the carryforward amounts. The SEC also periodically reviews Brocade’s public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to Brocade’s historical financial results. The IRS is contesting Brocade’s transfer pricing for the cost sharing and buy-in arrangements with its foreign subsidiaries. Brocade appealed the Revenue Agent’s Report to the Appeals Office of the IRS for the years under examination through 2006. The IRS is also examining Brocade’s fiscal year 2007 and 2008 income tax returns. The IRS may make similar claims against Brocade’s transfer pricing arrangements in future examinations. Audits by the IRS are subject to inherent uncertainties and an unfavorable outcome could occur, such as fines or penalties. The occurrence of an unfavorable outcome in any specific period could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s results of operations for that period or future periods. The expense of defending and resolving such an audit may be significant. The amount of time to resolve an audit is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from Brocade’s day-to-day business operations, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade is subject to various environmental and other regulations governing product safety, materials usage, packaging and other environmental impacts in the various countries where Brocade’s products are sold. For example, many of Brocade’s products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium and other substances, and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of Brocade’s products when they have reached the end of their useful life. For example, in Europe, substance restrictions apply to products sold, and certain of Brocade’s partners require compliance with these or more stringent requirements. In addition, recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements apply to products Brocade sells in Europe. China has also enacted similar legislation with similar requirements for Brocade’s products or its partners. Despite Brocade’s efforts to ensure that its products comply with new and emerging requirements, Brocade cannot provide absolute assurance that its products will, in all cases, comply with such requirements. If Brocade’s products do not comply with the substance restrictions under local environmental laws, Brocade could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions and contract damage claims. In addition, Brocade could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into one or more jurisdictions and required to recall and replace any non-compliant products already shipped, which would disrupt its ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories, and harm to Brocade’s business and customer relationships. Brocade’s 26 Table of Contents suppliers may also fail to provide it with compliant materials, parts and components despite Brocade’s requirement to do so, which could impact Brocade’s ability to timely produce compliant products and, accordingly, could disrupt its business. Brocade relies on licenses from third parties and the loss or inability to obtain any such license could harm its business. Many of Brocade’s products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, Brocade believes that, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Brocade’s inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on Brocade’s business (including its ability to continue to distribute or support effected products), operating results and financial condition. In addition, if Brocade fails to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in Brocade’s products, Brocade may be required to license key portions of Brocade’s products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of source code. Brocade is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that could adversely affect its operating results. Brocade is a party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits brought against Brocade, or legal actions initiated by Brocade, can often be expensive and time-consuming. Unfavorable outcomes from these claims and/or lawsuits could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations, or financial condition, and Brocade could incur substantial monetary liability and/or be required to change its business practices. Provisions in Brocade’s charter documents, customer agreements and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or mergers that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • Limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • Prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with Brocade, and Brocade’s agreements with certain of Brocade’s customers require that Brocade give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain manufacturing rights following a change of control. Brocade’s various change-of-control provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 