Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Foundry Networks, Inc. and the Combined Company The failure to successfully integrate Foundry’s business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results. Brocade believes that the acquisition of Foundry will result in certain benefits, including broader addressable market opportunities, product innovations, operational efficiencies and costs synergies. However, Brocade’s ability to realize these anticipated benefits depends on successfully combining the businesses of Brocade and Foundry. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger for a variety of reasons, including the following: • failure of customers to accept new products or to continue as customers of the combined company; • failure to successfully manage relationships with original equipment manufacturers, end-users, distributors and suppliers; • the loss of key employees; • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; • failure to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities of the combined company; • failure to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to the combined company; • unexpected revenue attrition; • failure to qualify the combined company’s products with OEM customers on a timely basis, or at all; and • failure to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems of Brocade and Foundry. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate Foundry’s business and operations, or if there are delays in combining the businesses, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. If Brocade is unable to finance the proposed acquisition, the acquisition will not be completed. Brocade expects to finance the acquisition from various financing sources, including cash on hand at both companies and a $1.1 billion term loan facility. The net proceeds from the $1.1 billion term loan facility have already been deposited into a restricted Brocade custody account pending the closing of the acquisition of Foundry and other customary release conditions, including, without limitation, there not having occurred since March 31, 2008 a change, occurrence or development that has or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect, as defined in the merger agreement, on Foundry and its subsidiaries, the creation of security interests in the collateral for the secured facility, the completion of the merger in accordance with the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, without any amendments or modifications to the merger agreement that are materially adverse to the lenders, the absence of certain other indebtedness, customary consents and approvals, the payment of required fees and expenses and a minimum level of unrestricted cash on the completion date of the acquisition. In the event that the financing described in the financing commitment letter is not available, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. If other financing becomes necessary and Brocade is unable to secure such additional financing, the acquisition will not be completed. 12 Table of Contents In the event of a termination of the merger agreement due to Brocade’s inability to obtain the necessary financing to complete the merger, Brocade may be obligated to pay Foundry either a reverse termination fee of $125.0 million or a reduced termination fee in the amount of $85.0 million, dependent on certain defined circumstances in the merger agreement. Foundry agreed in the merger agreement that if this termination fee becomes payable, Foundry’s right to receive the termination fee would be the sole and exclusive remedy of Foundry, its subsidiaries and their respective stockholders and affiliates, and Foundry and its subsidiaries would be deemed to have waived all other remedies (including equitable remedies) with respect to (i) any failure of the merger to be completed and (ii) any breach by Brocade of its obligation to complete the merger or any other covenant, obligation, representation, warranty or other provision set forth in the merger agreement. Accordingly, Foundry could not force Brocade to complete the merger or seek monetary damages or any other remedy beyond the amount of the termination fee. In addition, Foundry has agreed that, other than Brocade’s obligation to pay Foundry this termination fee, if and when it becomes payable, Brocade will have no liability of any nature to Foundry, its subsidiaries or their respective stockholders or affiliates in the event that Brocade is unable to obtain the necessary financing to complete the merger. Brocade will take on substantial additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition, which will decrease Brocade’s business flexibility and increase its borrowing costs. Upon completion of the acquisition, Brocade will increase its indebtedness by up to approximately $1.225 billion or more, and will have indebtedness that will be substantially greater than its indebtedness prior to the acquisition. The financial and other covenants agreed to by Brocade in connection with such indebtedness and the increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of Brocade in comparison to that of Brocade on a recent historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing the flexibility of Brocade to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs. In addition, the actual terms and conditions of such indebtedness may not be favorable to Brocade, and as such, could further increase the cost of the acquisition of Foundry, as well as the overall burden of such indebtedness upon Brocade and Brocade’s business flexibility. The instruments governing the anticipated indebtedness contain certain covenants applicable to Brocade and its subsidiaries that may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. In addition, any changes by rating agencies to Brocade’s credit rating in connection with such indebtedness may negatively impact the value and liquidity of Brocade’s debt and equity securities. The integration of Foundry into Brocade may result in significant expenses and accounting charges that adversely affect Brocade’s operating results and financial condition. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, Brocade will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. The financial results of Brocade may be adversely affected by the resulting accounting charges incurred in connection with the merger. Brocade also expects to incur additional costs associated with combining the operations of Brocade and Foundry, which may be substantial. Additional costs may include: costs of employee redeployment; relocation and retention bonuses; accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments; reorganization or closure of facilities; taxes; advisor and professional fees; and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease Brocade’s net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. The price of Brocade’s common stock could decline to the extent Brocade’s financial results are materially affected by the foregoing charges and costs, or if the foregoing charges and costs are larger than anticipated. The completion of the merger may result in dilution of future earnings per share to the stockholders of Brocade. It may also result in greater net losses or a weaker financial condition compared to that which would have been achieved by either Brocade or Foundry on a stand-alone basis. The pendency of the acquisition could cause disruptions in the businesses of Brocade and Foundry, which could have an adverse effect on their respective business and financial results, and consequently on the combined company. Brocade and Foundry have operated and, until the completion of the acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. Uncertainty about the effect of the acquisition on employees, customers, distributors and suppliers 13 Table of Contents may have an adverse effect on Brocade or Foundry, and consequently on the combined company. These uncertainties may impair Brocade’s and Foundry’s ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers, distributors, suppliers and others with whom each company deals to seek to change existing business relationships or delay purchases or other transactions with Brocade or Foundry, which may materially and adversely affect the respective businesses of Brocade and Foundry. Due to the limited termination rights agreed to by the parties in the merger agreement, Brocade and Foundry may be obligated to complete the merger in spite of the adverse effects resulting from the disruption of Brocade’s and Foundry’s ongoing businesses. Furthermore, this disruption could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers and employees after the merger or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Each of these events could adversely affect Brocade or Foundry in the near term or the combined company if the merger is completed. Failure to complete the acquisition could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of Brocade and Foundry. Completion of the acquisition is subject to a number of conditions, including obtaining Foundry stockholder approval and sufficient funds to finance the acquisition. If the acquisition is not completed, the price of Brocade common stock may decline. If the acquisition is not completed, the ongoing business of Brocade may also be adversely affected. In addition, Brocade may be obligated to pay Foundry either a reverse termination fee of $125.0 million or a reduced termination fee in the amount of $85.0 million, and certain costs relating to the acquisition, dependent on certain defined circumstances in the merger agreement. Brocade will also have made substantial commitments of time and resources in connection with the proposed acquisition, including integration planning, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Brocade. Brocade could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition. If the acquisition is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect Brocade’s business, financial results and stock price. Foundry, and subsequently the combined company, must continue to retain and motivate executives and key employees and recruit new employees, which may be difficult in light of uncertainty regarding the merger, and failure to do so could seriously harm the combined company. In order for the acquisition to be successful, during the period before the acquisition is completed, Foundry must continue to retain and motivate executives and other key employees and recruit new employees. The combined company must also be successful at retaining key employees following the completion of the acquisition. Experienced personnel in the networking and network security industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Employees of Foundry may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined company until or after strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. These potential distractions of the merger may adversely affect the ability of the combined company to attract, motivate and retain executives and key employees and keep them focused on applicable strategies and goals. Any failure by Foundry or the combined company to retain and motivate executives and key employees during the period prior to or after the completion of the acquisition could seriously harm the business of the combined company. Issuances of shares of Brocade common stock in connection with the merger and the resale thereof may cause the market price of shares of Brocade common stock to decline. As of December 5, 2008, Brocade had approximately 374,663,358 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 42,902,233 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and other equity-based awards. As of December 5, 2008, there were approximately 32,282,648 shares of Foundry common stock issuable upon the exercise of Foundry outstanding stock options and other equity-based awards. The additional shares of Brocade common stock that may become issuable from time to time upon the exercise of Foundry stock options and restricted stock units that are converted into Brocade stock options or restricted stock units in connection with the acquisition, or that may become issuable upon conversion of any convertible debt securities that Brocade may issue to finance the acquisition, based on the applicable conversion ratio in the merger agreement, could negatively affect the market price for shares of Brocade common stock. 14 Table of Contents Integrating Brocade and Foundry may divert management’s attention away from the combined company’s operations. Successful integration of Brocade’s and Foundry’s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on the combined company’s management and internal resources. Brocade may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating the different cultures and practices of Foundry, as well as in assimilating Foundry’s broad and geographically dispersed personnel. Further, the difficulties of integrating Foundry could disrupt the combined company’s ongoing business, distract its management focus from other opportunities and challenges, and increase the combined company’s expenses and working capital requirements. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm the combined company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Assuming the successful completion of the acquisition of Foundry, the Foundry business unit will face many similar risks as Brocade’s other business units. Additionally, the following risk factors of Foundry will also apply to the combined company as a result of the acquisition of Foundry. Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent the combined company from maintaining or increasing revenue and sustaining profitability with respect to its networking solutions. The market for networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco maintains a dominant position in this market and several of its products compete directly with the combined company’s products. Cisco’s substantial resources and market dominance have enabled it to reduce prices on its products within a short period of time following the introduction of these products, which typically causes its competitors to reduce prices and, therefore, the margins and the overall profitability of its competitors. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its longer operating history, broader product line and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that directly compete with the combined company’s products or render its products obsolete. The combined company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to compete successfully against Cisco, currently the market share leader in the networking market. The combined company would also compete with other companies, such as 3Com Corporation, Alcatel-Lucent, Enterasys Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Force10 Networks, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc. and Nortel Networks Corporation. Some of the combined company’s current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Additionally, the combined company may face competition from unknown companies and emerging technologies that may offer new LAN, MAN and LAN/WAN solutions. Furthermore, a number of these competitors may merge or form strategic relationships that would enable them to apply greater resources and sales coverage than the combined company can, and to offer, or bring to market earlier, products that are superior to the combined company’s in terms of features, quality, pricing or a combination of these and other factors. For example, Alcatel combined with Lucent in 2006. To remain competitive, the combined company must, among other things, continue to invest significant resources in developing new products, enhance its current products and maintain customer satisfaction. In addition, the combined company must make certain its sales and marketing capabilities allow it to compete effectively against its competitors. If the combined company fails to do so, its products may not compete favorably with those of its competitors and its revenue and profitability could suffer. The United States government is a significant customer and has been key to Foundry’s financial success. Government demand, however, is unpredictable and there is no guarantee of future contract awards. As part of the changing economic environment, the United States government has become an important customer for the networking industry, and for Foundry in particular, representing approximately 22% and 17% of Foundry’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007. The process of becoming a qualified government vendor, especially for high-security projects, takes considerable time and effort, and the timing of contract awards and deployment of Foundry’s products are hard to predict. Typically, six to twelve months 15 Table of Contents may elapse between the initial evaluation of Foundry’s systems by governmental agencies and the execution of a contract. The revenue stream from these contracts is hard to predict and may be materially uneven between quarters. Government agency contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are often protracted and may contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event funds are unavailable to the government agency. Even if Foundry is awarded contracts, substantial delays or cancellations of purchases could result from protests initiated by losing bidders. In addition, government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in certain areas. If Foundry fails to win significant government contract awards, if the government or individual agencies within the government terminate or reduce the scope and value of Foundry’s existing contracts, or if the government fails to reduce the budget deficit, Foundry’s financial results may be harmed. Additionally, government orders may be subject to priority requirements that may affect scheduled shipments to Foundry’s other customers. Foundry may be subject to litigation risks and intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit its ability to use certain technologies in the future. Additionally, Foundry may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. The networking industry is subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Some companies claim extensive patent portfolios that may apply to the networking industry. As a result of the existence of a large number of patents and the rate of issuance of new patents in the networking industry, it is practically impossible for a company to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components may infringe upon intellectual property rights that may be claimed by others. From time to time, third-parties have asserted patent, copyright and trademark rights to technologies and standards that are important to Foundry. Additionally, third-parties may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation against Foundry or its manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights with respect to Foundry’s existing or future products. Foundry has in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, substantial expenses in defending against such third-party claims. In the event of a determination adverse to Foundry, it could incur substantial monetary liability and be required to change its business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on Foundry’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. A number of companies have developed a licensing program in an attempt to realize revenue from their patent portfolios. Some of these companies have contacted Foundry regarding a license. Foundry carefully reviews all license requests, but is unwilling to license technology that it believes is not required for its product portfolio. However, any asserted license demand can require considerable effort and expense to review and respond. Moreover, a refusal by Foundry to a license request could result in threats of litigation or actual litigation, which, if or when initiated, could harm its business. Foundry is a party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Foundry believes that it has defenses in the lawsuits pending against it, and Foundry is vigorously contesting these allegations. Responding to the allegations has been, and probably will continue to be, expensive and time-consuming for Foundry. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect Foundry’s business, results of operations, or financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Brocade’s Business Brocade’s future revenue growth depends on its ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The market for data center networking solutions is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. Brocade’s future success depends largely upon its ability to address the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. This risk will likely become more pronounced as the data center networking markets become more competitive and as demand for new and improved technologies increases. 16 Table of Contents Brocade has introduced a significant number of new products in recent history, including products across its family of Data Center Infrastructure solutions, which accounts for a substantial portion of Brocade’s revenues. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, Brocade announced its new Data Center Fabric architecture and plans to provide a wide range of new solutions, technologies and partnerships over the following six months, including new product offerings based on 8 Gigabit per second technology solutions. Other recent product introductions in the Data Center Infrastructure market include the Brocade DCXtm Backbone, the first in a new class of high-performance data center networking products designed to address the demanding requirements of the evolving data center. Brocade must achieve widespread market acceptance of Brocade’s new product and service offerings in order to realize the benefits of Brocade’s investments. The rate of market adoption is also critical. The success of Brocade’s product and service offerings depends on numerous factors, including its ability to: • properly define the new products and services; • timely develop and introduce the new products and services; • differentiate Brocade’s new products and services from its competitors’ technology and product offerings; • address the complexities of interoperability of Brocade’s products with its installed base, OEM partners’ server and storage products and its competitors’ products; and • maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. Various factors impacting market acceptance are outside of Brocade’s control, including the following: • the availability and price of competing products and alternative technologies; • the cost of certain product subcomponents, which could reduce Brocade’s gross margins; • product qualification requirements by Brocade’s OEM partners, which can cause delays in the market acceptance; and • the ability of its OEM partners to successfully distribute, support and provide training for its products. If Brocade is not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, its business and results of operations will likely be harmed. Brocade’s revenues may be affected by changes in domestic and international information technology spending and overall demand for data center solutions. A significant portion of Brocade’s revenue is based on Data Center Infrastructure products, including switches, directors and embedded blades. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions and reduced global information technology spending rates, including spending on data center infrastructure, have adversely affected Brocade’s operating results. For example, in the latter half of fiscal year 2007 and early 2008, the Data Center Infrastructure market experienced cautious enterprise spending in North America. Brocade is unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and when information technology spending rates will be affected. In addition, recent concerns about the economy, particularly in North America and parts of EMEA and Japan, may also adversely affect information technology spending and therefore increase the uncertainty related to demand for data center solutions. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international information technology spending rates, or if information technology spending rates do not improve, Brocade’s revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Even if information technology spending rates increase, Brocade cannot be certain that the market for storage network and data center networking solutions will be positively impacted. Brocade’s storage networking products are sold as part of storage systems and subsystems. As a result, the demand for Brocade’s storage networking products has historically been affected by changes in storage requirements associated with growth related to new applications and an increase in transaction levels. Although in the past Brocade has experienced growth as enterprise-class customers have adopted storage area network technology, demand for data center products in the enterprise-class sector could be adversely affected if the overall economy weakens or experiences greater 17 Table of Contents uncertainty, or if larger businesses decide to defer or cancel new equipment purchases. If information technology spending levels are restricted and new products improve Brocade’s customers’ ability to utilize their existing data center infrastructure, the demand for data center solutions may decline. If this occurs, Brocade’s business and financial results will likely be harmed. In addition, the second half of calendar year 2008 has seen a rapid softening of the global economy and overall disruption of the credit and certain financial markets. The continuation, or worsening, of these domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues. Customers and prospective partners may change their spending priorities, which could materially reduce our revenues and, as a result, negatively impact our financial results. Brocade is currently expanding its product and service offerings in new and adjacent markets and Brocade’s operating results will likely suffer if these initiatives are not successful. Brocade has made a series of investments, and plans to continue to invest, in offerings focused on new markets that are adjacent or related to Brocade’s traditional market, including new and emerging markets. For instance, Brocade has recently made a series of introductions in the emerging File Management market with additions and enhancements to its family of file data management solutions which include Brocade StorageX, Brocade File Lifecycle Manager and the recently-introduced Brocade File Migration Engine. In November 2008, Brocade restructured one of its four business units dedicated to the File Management market and therefore any anticipated revenues or financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, Brocade has added multiple new professional service offerings to its solutions portfolio. Brocade also announced its new HBA product offerings in the Server Connectivity market in fiscal year 2008. The HBA product offerings represent Brocade’s entry into a new market, which involves a number of risks. Market adoption of Brocade’s HBA product offerings is still early in the acceptance process and remains to be determined. While Brocade recently announced the general availability of its initial internally developed HBA products, Brocade’s HBA products are still going through the qualification process with certain partners. Also, Brocade’s HBA products may be subject to greater than anticipated pricing volatility, and there may be pricing competition from companies already established in the HBA product market. Failure to obtain appropriate pricing could negatively affect market adoption and Brocade’s ability to realize the full benefits from the substantial investments it has made and plans to continue to make in HBA products. Part of Brocade’s growth strategy is to derive competitive advantage and drive incremental revenue growth through such investments. As a result, Brocade believes these new markets could substantially increase its total available market opportunities. Brocade cannot, however, be certain that it has accurately identified and estimated these market opportunities. Moreover, Brocade’s new strategic offerings may not achieve market acceptance or Brocade may not realize the full benefits from the substantial investments it has made and plans to continue to make. Brocade may also have only limited experience in these new markets given that such markets are adjacent or parallel to Brocade’s core market. As a result, Brocade may not be able to successfully penetrate or realize anticipated revenue from these new potential market opportunities. Brocade also faces greater challenges in accurately forecasting its revenue and margin with respect to these market opportunities. Developing new offerings also requires significant upfront investments that may not result in revenue for an extended period of time, if at all. As Brocade seeks to diversify its product and service offerings into market segments such as HBAs and File Management solutions, Brocade expects to incur significant costs and expenses for product development, sales, marketing and customer services, most of which are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. In addition, these investments have caused, and will likely continue to result in, higher operating expenses, and if they are not successful, Brocade’s operating income and operating margin will likely deteriorate. These new offerings may also involve costs and revenue structures that are different from those experienced in Brocade’s historical business, which could negatively impact Brocade’s operating results. 18 Table of Contents Because these new offerings may address different market needs than those it has historically addressed, Brocade may face a number of additional challenges, such as: • developing customer relationships both with new and existing customers; • expanding Brocade’s relationships with its existing OEM partners and end-users; • managing different sales cycles; • hiring qualified personnel with appropriate skill sets on a timely basis; and • establishing alternative routes to market and distribution channels. Brocade’s new product and service offerings also may contain some features that are currently offered by Brocade’s OEM partners, which could cause conflicts with partners on whom Brocade relies to bring its current products to customers and thus negatively impact Brocade’s relationship with such partners. Increased market competition may lead to reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. The data center networking markets continue to be very competitive as new products, services and technologies are introduced by existing competitors and as new competitors enter these markets. Increased competition in the past has resulted in greater pricing pressure and reduced sales, margins, profits and market share. For example, Brocade expects to experience increased competition in future periods as other companies develop and introduce 8 Gigabit or other products that are intended to compete with Brocade’s new 8 Gigabit products. Moreover, new competitive products could be based on existing technologies or new technologies that may or may not be compatible with Brocade’s storage network technology and new data center architecture. While new technologies such as Fibre Channel over Ethernet and non-Fibre Channel based emerging products utilizing Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, InfiniBand, or iSCSI represent future opportunities for further establishing or expanding Brocade’s market presence, they also could be disruptive to Brocade’s business if Brocade is not able to develop products that compete effectively. In addition to competing technology solutions, Brocade faces significant competition from providers of Fibre Channel switching products for interconnecting servers and storage. These principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. and QLogic Corporation. Brocade also faces other competitors in markets adjacent to the SAN market, such as Cisco and F5 Networks, Inc. in the File Management market and QLogic and Emulex in the Server Connectivity or HBA market. New competitors are likely to emerge from the existing Ethernet networking companies in the market as the FCoE standard becomes finalized and is introduced to the market. These competitors are likely to use emerging technologies and alternate routes-to-market (outside of Brocade’s traditional OEM channels) to compete with Brocade. In addition, Brocade’s OEM partners, who also have relationships with some of Brocade’s current competitors, could become new competitors by developing and introducing products that compete with Brocade’s product offerings, by choosing to sell Brocade’s competitors’ products instead of Brocade’s products, or by offering preferred pricing or promotions on Brocade’s competitors’ products. Competitive pressure will likely intensify as Brocade’s industry experiences further consolidation in connection with acquisitions by Brocade, its competitors and its OEM partners. Some of Brocade’s competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater human, financial and capital resources than Brocade does. Particularly as Brocade enters new adjacent markets, Brocade may face competitors with well-established market share and customer relationships. Brocade’s competitors could adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Brocade. Brocade believes that competition based on price may become more aggressive than it has traditionally experienced. Brocade’s competitors could also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than Brocade may be able to support and, as a result, be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer or market requirements. Brocade’s failure to successfully compete in the market would harm Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade’s competitors may also put pressure on Brocade’s distribution model of selling products to customers through OEM solution providers by focusing a large number of sales personnel on end-user customers or by entering into strategic partnerships. For example, one of Brocade’s competitors has formed a strategic partnership with a provider of network storage systems, which includes an agreement whereby Brocade’s competitor resells the storage systems of its partner in exchange for sales by the partner of Brocade’s competitor’s products. Such strategic partnerships, if successful, may influence Brocade to change Brocade’s traditional distribution model. 19 Table of Contents Brocade depends on a limited number of OEM partners for a substantial portion of Brocade’s revenues and the loss of any of these OEM partners or a decrease in their purchases could significantly reduce Brocade’s revenues and negatively affect Brocade’s financial results. Brocade depends on recurring purchases from a limited number of large OEM partners for a substantial portion of its revenues. As a result, these large OEM partners have a significant influence on Brocade’s quarterly and annual financial results. For fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, the same three customers each represented ten percent or more of Brocade’s total net revenues for a combined total of 65%, 68% and 73%, respectively. Brocade’s agreements with its OEM partners are typically cancelable, non-exclusive, have no minimum purchase requirements and have no specific timing requirements for purchases. Brocade’s OEM partners could also elect to reduce, or rebalance, the amount they purchase from Brocade and increase the amount purchased from Brocade’s competitors. Brocade anticipates that its revenues and operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of OEM partners. The loss of any one significant OEM partner, or a decrease in the level of sales to any one significant OEM partner, or unsuccessful quarterly negotiation on key terms, conditions or timing of purchase orders placed during a quarter, would likely cause serious harm to Brocade’s business and financial results. In addition, some of Brocade’s OEM partners purchase Brocade’s products for their inventories in anticipation of customer demand. These OEM partners make decisions to purchase inventory based on a variety of factors, including their product qualification cycles and their expectations of end customer demand, which may be affected by seasonality and their internal supply management objectives. Others require that Brocade maintain inventories of Brocade’s products in hubs adjacent to their manufacturing facilities and purchase Brocade’s products only as necessary to fulfill immediate customer demand. If more of Brocade’s OEM partners transition to a hub model, form partnerships, alliances or agreements with other companies that divert business away from Brocade, or otherwise change their business practices, their ordering patterns may become less predictable. Consequently, changes in ordering patterns may affect both the timing and volatility of Brocade’s reported revenues. The timing of sales to Brocade’s OEM partners and consequently the timing and volatility of Brocade’s reported revenues, may be further negatively affected by the product introduction schedules of Brocade’s OEM partners. Brocade’s OEM partners evaluate and qualify Brocade’s products for a limited time period before they begin to market and sell them. Assisting Brocade’s OEM partners through the evaluation process requires significant sales, marketing and engineering management efforts on Brocade’s part, particularly if Brocade’s products are being qualified with multiple distribution partners at the same time. In addition, once Brocade’s products have been qualified, its customer agreements have no minimum purchase commitments. Brocade may not be able to effectively maintain or expand its distribution channels, manage distribution relationships successfully, or market its products through distribution partners. Brocade must continually assess, anticipate and respond to the needs of its distribution partners and their customers, and ensure that its products integrate with their solutions. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage its distribution relationships or the failure of its distribution partners to sell Brocade’s products could reduce Brocade’s revenues significantly. In addition, Brocade’s ability to respond to the needs of its distribution partners in the future may depend on third-parties producing complementary products and applications for Brocade’s products. If Brocade fails to respond successfully to the needs of these groups, its business and financial results could be harmed. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage the transition between its new products and its older products may adversely affect Brocade’s financial results. As Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, such as new products based on the recently introduced 8 Gigabit technology, Brocade faces numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. In addition, any customer uncertainty regarding the timeline for rolling out new products or Brocade’s plans for future support of existing products, may negatively impact customer purchase decisions. 20 Table of Contents Failure to manage expansion effectively could seriously harm Brocade’s business, financial condition and prospects. Brocade continues to increase the scope of its operations domestically and internationally as a result of its expanded product and service offerings and acquisitions of other companies or businesses. In November 2007, Brocade announced that it reorganized its management structure to provide more dedicated focus on the Company’s growth opportunities, as well as allow the Company to more easily accommodate and assimilate future acquisitions and new business initiatives. The new structure is organized around four distinct business units, each with its own general manager. Brocade’s ability to successfully implement its business plan, develop and offer products, and manage expansion in a rapidly evolving market requires a comprehensive and effective planning and management process. Moreover, Brocade’s growth in business and relationships with customers and other third-parties has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on management systems, employees, resources, intercompany communications and coordination, and may lead to increased costs. Failure to maintain and continue to improve upon Brocade’s operational, managerial and financial controls, reporting systems, processes and procedures and/or Brocade’s failure to continue to expand, train and manage its workforce worldwide, or control increased costs of its efforts to manage expansion could seriously harm Brocade’s business and financial results. In November 2008, Brocade restructured one of its four business units dedicated to the File Management market and therefore any anticipated revenues or financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, Brocade recently opened a new manufacturing facility in Eastern Europe. The anticipated benefits of this new facility may not be realized, and Brocade may not recover the costs of this new facility if the growth in Brocade’s products, sales and marketing falls below its expectations. The failure to accurately forecast demand for Brocade’s products or the failure to successfully manage the production of Brocade’s products could negatively affect the supply of key components for Brocade’s products and Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. Brocade provides product forecasts to its contract manufacturers and places purchase orders with them in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to Brocade’s customers. Moreover, in preparing sales and demand forecasts, Brocade relies largely on input from its OEM partners. Therefore, if Brocade or its OEM partners are unable to accurately forecast demand, or if Brocade fails to effectively communicate with its distribution partners about end-user demand or other time-sensitive information, the sales and demand forecasts may not reflect the most accurate, up-to-date information. If these forecasts are inaccurate, Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories. Furthermore, Brocade may not be able to identify forecast discrepancies until late in its fiscal quarter. Consequently, Brocade may not be able to make adjustments to its business model. If Brocade is unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers, if Brocade accumulates excess inventories, or if Brocade is unable to make necessary adjustments to Brocade’s business model, revenue may be delayed or even lost to Brocade’s competitors and Brocade’s business and financial results may be harmed. In addition, Brocade may experience higher fixed costs as it expands its contract manufacturer capabilities and thus be less able to react quickly if demand suddenly decreases. Brocade’s ability to accurately forecast demand also may become increasingly more difficult as Brocade enters new or adjacent markets, begins phasing out certain products, or in the event of acquisitions of other companies or businesses. Forecasting demand for new or adjacent markets, particularly where the markets are not yet well-established, may be highly speculative and uncertain. For products that are nearing end of life or being replaced by new versions, it may be difficult to forecast how quickly to decrease production on the older products and ramp up production on the new products. Acquired companies or businesses may offer less visibility into demand than Brocade typically has experienced, may cause customer uncertainty regarding purchasing decisions, and may use different measures to evaluate demand that are less familiar to Brocade and thus more difficult to accurately predict. In addition, although the purchase orders placed with Brocade’s contract manufacturers are cancelable, in certain circumstances Brocade could be required to purchase certain unused material not returnable, usable by, or sold to other customers if Brocade cancels any of Brocade’s orders. This purchase commitment exposure is particularly high in periods of new product introductions and product transitions. If Brocade is required to purchase unused material from Brocade’s contract manufacturers, Brocade would incur unanticipated expenses and Brocade’s business and financial results could be negatively affected. 21 Table of Contents The prices of Brocade’s products have declined in the past and Brocade expects the price of Brocade’s products to continue to decline, which could reduce Brocade’s revenues, gross margins and profitability. The average selling price for Brocade’s products has declined in the past and Brocade expects it to continue to decline in the future as a result of changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressure, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, the entrance of new competitors and other factors. For example, while the pricing environment for the past several quarters has been more favorable than historical levels, price declines may increase as competitors ramp up product releases that compete with Brocade’s products. If Brocade is unable to offset any negative impact that changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, enhanced marketing programs, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, or other factors may have on it by increasing the volume of products shipped or reducing product manufacturing cost, Brocade’s total revenues and gross margins will be negatively impacted. In addition, to maintain Brocade’s gross margins, Brocade must maintain or increase the number of products shipped, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of Brocade’s products. While Brocade has successfully reduced the cost of manufacturing Brocade’s products in the past, Brocade may not be able to continue to reduce cost of production at historical rates. Moreover, most of Brocade’s expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, Brocade may not be able to decrease its spending quickly enough or in sufficient amounts to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, Brocade could incur losses and Brocade’s operating results and gross margins could be below expectations. Additionally, increased costs resulting from higher than anticipated oil prices and the volatility of the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the costs of components used in Brocade’s products and negatively affect Brocade’s gross margins. Brocade is dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components, the loss of which may significantly impact results of operations. Brocade purchases certain key components used in the manufacture of its products from single or limited sources. Brocade purchases specific ASICs from a single source, and Brocade purchases microprocessors, certain connectors, small form-factor pluggable transceivers, logic chips, power supplies and programmable logic devices from limited sources. Brocade also licenses certain third-party software that is incorporated into Brocade’s operating system software and other software products. If Brocade is unable to obtain these and other components when required or if Brocade experiences significant component defects, Brocade may not be able to deliver Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers in a timely manner. As a result, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. In addition, the loss of any of Brocade’s major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact Brocade’s ability to produce its products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is typically a lengthy and expensive process. If Brocade is required to change its contract manufacturer or if its contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers could be delayed and result in loss of revenues and Brocade’s competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. Brocade has been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits arising from Brocade’s internal reviews and related restatements of Brocade’s financial statements during 2005, and Brocade may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant additional legal expenses as well as result in an unfavorable resolution that would likely have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Brocade is subject to a number of lawsuits arising from Brocade’s internal reviews and the related restatements of Brocade’s financial statements in 2005, some filed on behalf of a class of Brocade’s stockholders against Brocade and certain of its former officers and current and former directors claiming violations of securities laws, and others filed derivatively, purportedly on behalf of Brocade, against certain of Brocade’s current and former officers and 22 Table of Contents directors, and Brocade may become the subject of additional private actions. In addition, in August 2008, the Special Litigation Committee of Brocade’s Board of Directors filed a complaint against certain former officers and directors on behalf of Brocade, asserting claims arising from the 2005 internal reviews and related restatements described above. The expenses associated with such litigation and other related litigation is significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of Brocade’s business, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade also has certain indemnification obligations to certain current and former officers, directors and employees arising out of such litigation for, among other things, the advancement of certain legal expenses. On May 30, 2008, Brocade reached an agreement in principle with the lead plaintiffs to settle the federal securities class action for a payment by Brocade of $160.0 million to the plaintiff class in exchange for the dismissal with prejudice of all claims against all defendants in the litigation. The parties filed final documentation of the settlement with the Court and, after a preliminary approval hearing, the Court granted preliminary approval of the settlement on November 18, 2008. In December 2008, Brocade deposited $160.0 million into an escrow account on behalf of the plaintiff class to be released upon final approval of the proposed settlement by the Federal District Court. The final approval hearing is scheduled for January 23, 2009. Certain former officers and directors of Brocade are subject to ongoing actions by the SEC, the Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the Company and others, which have required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of legal expense pursuant to indemnification obligations of Brocade, which could adversely affect Brocade’s results of operations and cash flows. Although Brocade reached a settlement in May 2007 with the SEC regarding the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Brocade’s historical stock option granting practices, the SEC, DOJ and various other third-parties are continuing to investigate and pursue actions against certain former executive officers of Brocade. In addition, in August 2008, the Special Litigation Committee of Brocade’s Board of Directors filed a complaint against certain former officers and directors on behalf of Brocade, asserting claims arising from the 2005 internal reviews and related restatements described above. While those actions are targeted against certain former officers and directors and not Brocade, Brocade has certain indemnification obligations to such former officers and directors for, among other things, the advancement of legal expenses incurred in connection with such actions, which have required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of expense to Brocade. Whether Brocade may be entitled to recoup all or a portion of the expenses advanced by Brocade on behalf of such former officers and directors or recover any losses resulting from certain actions of such former officers and directors is complex and may be affected by, among other things, various state laws, the interpretation of indemnification agreements and the collectability of any such amounts. If Brocade loses key personnel or is unable to hire additional qualified personnel, Brocade’s business may be harmed. Brocade’s success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Brocade believes its future success will also depend, in large part, upon Brocade’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other personnel, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. There is only a limited number of qualified personnel in the applicable market and competition for such employees is fierce. Brocade has experienced difficulty in hiring qualified personnel in areas such as application-specific integrated circuits, software, system and test, sales, marketing, service, key management and customer support. In addition, Brocade’s past reductions in force could potentially make attracting and retaining qualified employees more difficult in the future. Brocade’s ability to hire qualified personnel may also be negatively impacted by Brocade’s lawsuits relating to its historical stock option granting practices and related media coverage, as well as Brocade’s fluctuating stock price. Brocade’s ability to retain qualified personnel may also be affected by future acquisitions, such as the acquisition of Foundry, which may cause uncertainty and loss of key personnel. The loss of the services of any of Brocade’s key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of Brocade’s products or services, and negatively affect Brocade’s ability to sell its products or services. 23 Table of Contents In addition, companies in the computer storage and server industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Brocade may be subject to such claims in the future as Brocade seeks to hire additional qualified personnel. Such claims could result in material litigation. As a result, Brocade could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is resolved against Brocade. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits in connection with its recent purchase of real estate and plans to develop and construct office buildings, which could disrupt its business and negatively impact its financial performance. Brocade’s recent purchase of real estate in San Jose, California and its commitment to build a new campus of several buildings on that real estate constitute a substantial investment. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits with respect to the purchase and development of such property. To the extent Brocade’s growth is substantially less than its estimates, resulting in excess space, Brocade may not be able to sublease the excess space on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, the development, construction and maintenance of the new campus may result in unexpected costs or delays, which could negatively impact its financial position. Moreover, any delays in the development or construction of the new campus could also suspend Brocade’s ability to move into the new campus on a timely basis and, as a result, disrupt Brocade’s business. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and strategic investments, and integration of acquired companies or technologies may negatively impact Brocade’s business. Brocade has in the past acquired, or made strategic investments in, other companies, products or technologies, and Brocade expects to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Examples of recent acquisitions include Strategic Business Systems, Inc. in March 2008, McDATA Corporation in January 2007 and NuView, Inc. in March 2006. In addition to the risks related to the anticipated acquisition of Foundry that are described above in “Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Foundry Networks, Inc. and the Combined Company,” Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Foundry or any other acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in successfully integrating the acquired businesses; • revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels if existing customers alter or reduce their historical buying patterns; • unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from Brocade’s daily operations and business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering into markets in which Brocade has limited or no prior experience; • potential loss of key employees; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • assumption or incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and related obligations to service such liabilities and Brocade’s ability to satisfy financial and other negative operating covenants; • additional costs such as increased costs of manufacturing and service costs, costs associated with excess or obsolete inventory, costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes, advisor and professional fees, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services; 24 Table of Contents • incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact Brocade’s operating results; • potential write-down of goodwill and/or acquired intangible assets, which are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, and could significantly impact Brocade’s operating results; and • dilution of the percentage of Brocade’s stockholders to the extent equity is used as consideration or option plans are assumed. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that Brocade acquires, or to realize expected benefits of Brocade’s acquisitions or strategic investments, Brocade’s business and financial results would be adversely affected. Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of Brocade’s products or businesses and asset impairments. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, Brocade may be required to realign its resources strategically and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in, or dispose of, or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third-parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Brocade’s estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of Brocade’s carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Further, Brocade’s estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, Brocade is required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. Brocade’s business is subject to cyclical fluctuations and uneven sales patterns, which make predicting results of operations difficult. Many of Brocade’s OEM partners experience uneven sales patterns in their businesses due to the cyclical nature of information technology spending. For example, some of Brocade’s partners close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each fiscal quarter, and other partners experience spikes in sales during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Because the majority of Brocade’s sales are derived from a small number of OEM partners, when they experience seasonality, Brocade typically experiences similar seasonality. Historically, Brocade’s first and fourth fiscal quarters are seasonally stronger quarters than its second and third fiscal quarters. In addition, Brocade has experienced quarters where uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners have resulted in a significant portion of Brocade’s revenue occurring in the last month of Brocade’s fiscal quarter. This exposes Brocade to additional inventory risk as it has to order products in anticipation of expected future orders and additional sales risk if Brocade is unable to fulfill unanticipated demand. Brocade is not able to predict the degree to which the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners or other customers will affect Brocade’s business in the future, particularly as Brocade releases new products. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading price of Brocade’s stock. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, any of which may cause Brocade’s stock price to fluctuate. Factors that may affect the predictability of Brocade’s annual and quarterly results include, but are not limited to, the following: • announcements of pending or completed acquisitions or other strategic transactions by Brocade or its competitors; • announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Brocade and its competitors or its OEM partners; 25 Table of Contents • the timing of customer orders, product qualifications and product introductions of Brocade’s OEM partners; • seasonal fluctuations; • long and complex sales cycles; • changes, disruptions or downturns in general economic conditions, particularly in the information technology industry; • declines in average selling prices for Brocade’s products as a result of competitive pricing pressures or new product introductions by Brocade or its competitors; • the emergence of new competitors and new technologies in the storage network and data management markets; • deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, services, or product enhancements introduced by Brocade or its competitors; • Brocade’s ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of its OEM customers; • Brocade’s ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-sourced components, including ASICs, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips and programmable logic devices; • increases in prices of components used in the manufacture of Brocade’s products; • Brocade’s ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels; • variations in the mix of Brocade’s products sold and the mix of distribution channels and geographies through which they are sold; • pending or threatened litigation; • stock-based compensation expense that is affected by Brocade’s stock price; • new legislation and regulatory developments; and • other risk factors detailed in this section. Accordingly, the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Brocade cannot assure you that in some future quarter Brocade’s revenues or operating results will not be below Brocade’s projections or the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, which could cause Brocade’s stock price to decline. Undetected software or hardware errors could increase Brocade’s costs, reduce Brocade’s revenues and delay market acceptance of Brocade’s products. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, or bugs, when first introduced or as new versions are released. Brocade’s products are becoming increasingly complex and, particularly as Brocade continues to expand Brocade’s product portfolio to include software-centric products, including software licensed from third-parties, errors may be found from time to time in Brocade’s products. In addition, through its acquisitions, Brocade has assumed, and may in the future assume, products previously developed by an acquired company that may not have been through the same product development, testing and quality control processes typically used for products developed internally by Brocade, and may have known or undetected errors. Some types of errors also may not be detected until the product is installed in a heavy production or user environment. In addition, Brocade’s products are often combined with other products, including software, from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause Brocade to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations problems. Moreover, the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by another vendor’s storage network and data management products or Brocade’s, could delay market acceptance of Brocade’s new products. 26 Table of Contents Brocade is subject to environmental regulations that could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business. Brocade is subject to various environmental and other regulations governing product safety, materials usage, packaging and other environmental impacts in the various countries where Brocade’s products are sold. For example, many of Brocade’s products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium and other substances, and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of Brocade’s products when they have reached the end of their useful life. For example, in Europe, substance restrictions apply to products sold, and certain of Brocade’s OEM partners require compliance with these or more stringent requirements. In addition, recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements apply to products Brocade sells in Europe. China has also enacted similar legislation with similar requirements for Brocade’s products or its OEM partners. Despite Brocade’s efforts to ensure that Brocade’s products comply with new and emerging requirements, Brocade cannot provide absolute assurance that its products will, in all cases, comply with such requirements. If Brocade’s products do not comply with the substance restrictions under local environmental laws, Brocade could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions and contract damage claims. In addition, Brocade could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into one or more jurisdictions and required to recall and replace any non-compliant products already shipped, which would disrupt Brocade’s ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories and harm to Brocade’s business and customer relationships. Brocade’s suppliers may also fail to provide it with compliant materials, parts and components despite Brocade’s requirement to them to provide compliant materials, parts and components, which could impact Brocade’s ability to timely produce compliant products and, accordingly, could disrupt Brocade’s business. Brocade’s future operating expenses may be adversely affected by changes in Brocade’s stock price. A portion of Brocade’s outstanding stock options and restricted stock units are subject to variable accounting. Under variable accounting, Brocade is required to remeasure the value of certain options and other equity awards, and the corresponding compensation expense, at the end of each reporting period until the option is exercised, cancelled or expires unexercised, or the restricted stock unit vests or is cancelled. As a result, the stock-based compensation expense Brocade recognizes in any given period can vary substantially due to changes in the market value of Brocade’s common stock. Volatility associated with stock price movements has resulted in compensation benefit when Brocade’s stock price has declined and compensation expense when Brocade’s stock price has increased. For example, the market value of Brocade’s common stock at the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2008 and the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 was $7.30 and $3.09 per share, respectively. Accordingly, stock-based compensation expense (benefit) for these options was $0.6 million for the second fiscal quarter of 2008 and $(0.7) million for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008. Brocade is unable to predict the future market value of Brocade’s common stock and therefore is unable to predict the compensation expense or benefit that Brocade will record in future periods. Brocade has extensive international operations, which subjects it to additional business risks. A significant portion of Brocade’s sales occur in international jurisdictions and Brocade’s contract manufacturer has significant operations in China. Brocade plans to continue to expand its international operations and sales activities in addition to the establishment of its new limited manufacturing facility in Eastern Europe. Expansion of international operations will involve inherent risks that Brocade may not be able to control, including: • supporting multiple languages; • recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support Brocade’s products; • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; • multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 27 Table of Contents • reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; • managing a development team in geographically disparate locations, including China and India; and • more complicated logistics and distribution arrangements. In addition, international political instability may halt or hinder Brocade’s ability to do business and may increase Brocade’s costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, may suddenly increase international tensions. In addition, concerns about other international crises, such as potential pandemics, may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect Brocade’s business operations or the operations of Brocade’s OEM partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers. To date, no material amount of Brocade’s international revenues and cost of revenues have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Brocade’s products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase Brocade’s operating costs in foreign locations. In the future, a larger portion of Brocade’s international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will subject Brocade to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. In addition, Brocade may be unable to successfully hedge against any such fluctuations. Brocade relies on licenses from third-parties and the loss or inability to obtain any such license could harm Brocade’s business. Many of Brocade’s products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of Brocade’s products, Brocade believes that, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Brocade’s inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if Brocade fails to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in Brocade’s products, Brocade may be required to license key portions of Brocade’s products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of source code. Third-parties may bring infringement claims against Brocade, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Brocade has in the past been involved in intellectual property-related disputes, including lawsuits with Vixel Corporation and Raytheon Company, and Brocade may be involved in similar disputes in the future to protect Brocade’s intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others. Brocade may also inherit intellectual property-related disputes from acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies. In addition, Brocade may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to Brocade’s agreements with OEM partners or customers. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject Brocade to significant liability for damages and invalidation of proprietary rights. Any such lawsuits, even if ultimately resolved in Brocade’s favor, would likely be time-consuming, expensive to resolve and divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property dispute also could force Brocade to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may require Brocade to pay royalty or license fees, or license Brocade’s intellectual property to such owner, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; and • redesign those products or services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If Brocade is forced to take any of the foregoing actions, Brocade’s business and results of operations could be materially harmed. 28 Table of Contents Business interruptions could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade’s operations and the operations of its suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, earthquake, hurricane, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond Brocade’s control. For example, a substantial portion of Brocade’s facilities, including its corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. In the event of a major earthquake, Brocade could experience business interruption, destruction of facilities and loss of life. Brocade does not carry earthquake insurance and has not set aside funds or reserves to cover such potential earthquake-related losses. In addition, Brocade’s contract manufacturer has a major facility located in an area that is subject to hurricanes. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Brocade, its suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers, shipments could be delayed and Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Brocade’s business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both its costs and the risk of noncompliance. Brocade is subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which Brocade’s common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and NASDAQ, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brocade is also subject to various rules and regulations of certain foreign jurisdictions, including applicable tax regulations. Brocade’s efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Brocade is subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. For example, in November 2005, Brocade was notified by the IRS that Brocade’s domestic federal income tax return for the year ended October 25, 2003 was subject to audit. In addition, in August 2008, the IRS commenced examination of the income tax returns for the three tax years ended 2004 through 2006. In May 2006, the Franchise Tax Board notified Brocade that its California income tax returns for the years ended October 25, 2003 and October 30, 2004 were subject to audit. All these examination cycles remain open as of October 25, 2008. The SEC also periodically reviews Brocade’s public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to Brocade’s historical financial results. In May 2008, the IRS completed its field examination of Brocade’s federal income tax return for the year ended October 25, 2003 and issued a Revenue Agent’s Report. The IRS’ proposed adjustment was offset by approximately $306.0 million of Brocade’s net operating loss carryforwards which resulted in a tax assessment of approximately $6.4 million, excluding penalties and interest. The IRS is contesting Brocade’s transfer pricing for the cost sharing and buy-in arrangements with its foreign subsidiaries. The IRS may make similar claims against Brocade’s transfer pricing arrangements in future examinations. In June 2008, Brocade filed a protest with the Appeals Office of the IRS to seek resolution of the issues. Audits by the IRS are subject to inherent uncertainties and an unfavorable outcome could occur, such as fines or penalties. The occurrence of an unfavorable outcome in any specific period could have a material adverse affect on Brocade’s results of operations for that period or future periods. The expense of defending and resolving such an audit may be significant. The amount of time to resolve an audit is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of Brocade’s business, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business. 29 Table of Contents Provisions in Brocade’s charter documents, customer agreements and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or mergers that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • requiring super-majority voting to effect amendments to the foregoing provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with Brocade and Brocade’s agreements with certain of Brocade’s customers require that Brocade give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain manufacturing rights following a change of control. Brocade’s various anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 