ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and these factors are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties. Changes in General Economic and Political Conditions Affect Consumer Spending and May Harm Our Revenues and Operating Results. With a few exceptions, most of the restaurant industry’s casual dining segment experienced a slow down or negative same-store sales and tighter profit margins in 2008. The forecast for 2009 continues to be cautious, calling for a continuation of the current economic recession. A few economic conditions that could impact the economy and our operating results are: rising unemployment, the economic recession and the subsequent decline in household wealth could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending; a decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues. A return to rising fuel and energy costs could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending. Additionally, the continued responses to the terrorist attacks on the United States, possible future terrorist attacks and the conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan and its aftermath may exacerbate current economic conditions and lead to a further weakening in the economy. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in discretionary spending by our customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our Small Restaurant Base and Geographic Concentration Make Our Operations More Susceptible to Local Economic Conditions and the Economic Downturn May Adversely Impact Our Results. The results achieved to date by our relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area. Because of our relatively small restaurant base, an unsuccessful new restaurant could have a more significant effect on its results of operations than would be the case in a company owning more restaurants. Additionally, given our present geographic concentration (all of our company-owned units are currently in Texas, especially along the Gulf Coast region, and in Oklahoma, Louisiana and Michigan), results of operations may be adversely affected by economic or other conditions in the region, such as hurricanes, and any adverse publicity in the region relating to its restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on its overall sales than might be the case if its restaurants were more broadly dispersed. Also, the ongoing financial crisis and economic downturn could result in material decreases in discretionary spending by consumers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Cost Pressures May Adversely Impact Our Net Income. We believe that certain cost pressures impacted net income during fiscal year 2008. Substantial increases in food commodity prices, utilities and group health insurance had a marked impact on our operating results to the extent such increases could not be passed along to customers. There can be no assurance that we will not experience similar cost pressures in 2009. If operating expenses increase, our management intends to attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices to the extent deemed advisable in light of competitive conditions. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. On July 24, 2008, the federal minimum wage increased from $5.85 to $6.55 per hour. We estimated that the increase in the federal minimum wage impacted our labor cost by approximately $2,000 per week. Future federal minimum wage increases are scheduled to increase to $7.25 per hour on July 24, 2009. The minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to the extent that we cannot increase menu prices. Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our produce, which is purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Ben E. Keith Company as the primary distributor of our ingredients. Ben E. Keith Company is a privately held corporation that is part of a cooperative of independent food distributors (Unipro) located throughout the nation. We have an exclusive contract with Ben E. Keith Company on terms and conditions which we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Any increase in distribution prices by Ben E. Keith Company could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. 11 Rising Insurance Costs Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. We are insured against a variety of uncertainties. We also provided group health insurance to certain of our employees and cover approximately 65% of the cost. While the cost of certain insurance coverages increased in 2008, we were able to negotiate lower premium costs for other insurance coverages, and in general, were able to minimize the overall increase and impact of all total insurance costs to the Company. For example, a decrease in property and casualty premiums did have a positive impact on our profitability in fiscal year 2008. However, the increase in group health insurance costs did have a negative impact on our profitability in fiscal year 2008. Each year, we renew our insurance coverages. Although we try to be proactive in our efforts to control insurance costs, market forces beyond our control may thwart our ability to manage these costs. We expect insurance premiums for property and casualty insurance to increase in light of the impact of recent hurricanes on the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. Seasonal Fluctuations in Sales and Earnings Affect Our Quarterly Results. Our sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. Historically, our highest sales and earnings have occurred in the second and third calendar quarters, which we believe is typical of the restaurant industry and consumer spending patterns in general. In addition, quarterly results have been and, in the future are likely to be, substantially affected by the timing of new restaurant openings. Because of the seasonality of our business and the impact of new restaurant openings, results for any calendar quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year and cannot be used to indicate financial performance for the entire year. An Increase In Our Interest Rates May Adversely Impact Net Income. We are subject to interest rate fluctuations under the terms of our outstanding bank debt with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The interest rate is either the prime rate or LIBOR plus a stipulated percentage. Accordingly, we are impacted by changes in the prime rate and LIBOR. As of December 28, 2008, we had $7.5 million outstanding on our credit facility with Wells Fargo. Our Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Borrow. Under the Wells Fargo Agreement, we are required to maintain certain minimum EBITDA levels, leverage ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Due to the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, which resulted in approximately $1.15 million in lost sales, we increased our debt by $1.0 million to $7.5 million. As a result of the lost sales, we failed to satisfy our minimum EBITDA covenant for the twelve month period as of the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. We requested and received from Wells Fargo a waiver to this covenant for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, and as of December 28, 2008, received an amendment to the covenant permanently removing the requirement to maintain certain minimum EBITDA levels. Although we are currently in compliance with such financial covenants as amended, an erosion of our business could place us out of compliance in future periods. Potential remedies for the lender if we are not in compliance include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens. See “Note 3, Long-term Debt, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market against other family dining concepts, as well as quick service and casual dining concepts, for customers, employees and franchisees. Several of our competitors operate more restaurants and have significantly greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets, this could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Implementing Our Growth Strategy May Strain Our Resources. Our ability to expand by adding Company-owned and franchised restaurants will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management and hourly employees, the availability of acceptable lease terms and adequate financing, timely construction of restaurants, the ability to obtain various government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to open our planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 Our Management and Directors Hold a Majority of the Common Stock. Approximately 64.8% of our Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock are beneficially owned or held by Larry N. Forehand, The D3 Family Funds (with which Cara Denver, one of our directors, is affiliated), Michael D. Domec and Louis P. Neeb, directors and/or executive officers or affiliates thereof. As a result, these individuals have substantial control over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Shares Eligible for Future Sale Could Adversely Impact the Stock Price. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In any event, the market price of the Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. From time to time, we are the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether the Company is liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to state “dramshop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Although we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Compliance with Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses. Keeping up-to-date and in compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 