D. Risk Factors Holders of our securities should note that investment in our securities involves risks and uncertainties that could affect our future business success or financial results. The following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission by our company, among other factors, could adversely affect our results of operations and could cause our results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, our company: Risks Relating to Our Company We recorded gross, operating and net losses in 2003 and operating and net losses in 2005. Future losses could materially adversely affect the value of your investment. The semiconductor industry was in a severe and protracted downturn that began in the second half of 2000 and continued through the first half of 2003, resulting in a drop in demand and general decline in the average selling prices of our products. For 2003, we recorded 6 Table of Contents a gross loss of NT$2,942 million, an operating loss of NT$7,684 million and a net loss of NT$8,198 million. Although conditions in the semiconductor industry improved between the third quarter of 2003 and the first half of 2004, the industry experienced another downturn that began in the second half of 2004 and continued throughout 2005. For 2004, we recorded a gross profit of NT$4,388 million, an operating loss of NT$349 million and net income of NT$218 million. For 2005, we recorded a gross profit of NT$242 million, an operating loss of NT$4,875 million and net loss of NT$7,027 million. For 2006, we recorded a gross profit of NT$7,529 million (US$231.0 million), an operating income of NT$1,875 million (US$57.5 million) and net income of NT$2,034 million (US$62.4 million). However, under U.S. GAAP, we recorded a net loss of NT$469 million in 2004, a net loss of NT$4,636 million in 2005 and a net income of NT$636 million (US$19.5 million) in 2006. As a result, we cannot assure you that these losses will not occur again or increase. If we record losses in the future, the value of your investment may be materially and adversely affected. Increasing concentration of sales to Nintendo means that any delay or reduction in orders by Nintendo or the loss of Nintendo as a customer could result in the loss of a significant portion of our revenue. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our net sales to Megachips Corporation (“Megachips”), which resells our products to Nintendo, aggregated NT$5,240 million, NT$5,511 million and NT$8,024 million (US$246 million), respectively, or 22.4%, 29.2% and 34.1%, respectively, of our net sales revenue in those periods. Unit sales volumes or prices of ROMs and other products sold through Megachips to Nintendo may fluctuate significantly depending on the products offered by Nintendo and its need for our products. Nintendo faces competitive pressure in the electronics entertainment market, which is characterized by frequent new product introductions and rapidly shifting consumer preferences. In particular, Nintendo’s Dual Screen handheld gaming devices (“DSD”) platform (which uses our Mask ROM products) faces competition from Sony’s PSP portable gaming device. Nintendo may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods or at all. The loss of Nintendo as a customer, delayed or reduced orders by Nintendo, decreases in product prices or significant changes in delivery schedules to Nintendo could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any negative development in the relationship between us and Megachips or the relationship between Nintendo and Megachips could harm our sales to Nintendo. We have limited liquidity and may be unable to repurchase our outstanding debt securities when requested by holders, pay certain other obligations as they become due or otherwise meet our working capital needs. We have a certain amount of obligations that will or may come due within the next several years, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay these obligations. These obligations include the maturing of a portion of our long-term debt, payment of our short-term debt, payment of the current portion of our long-term debt, expenditures required under contractual obligations and the payment of the costs of the day-to-day operation of our business. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. In 2007, we have been or will also be required to pay short-term debt and notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately NT$1,306 million (US$40.1 million) and repay the principal and current portion of long-term debt in the aggregate principal amount of NT$1,050 million (US$32.2 million). In addition, we also have obligations under contracts, which we have entered into for goods and services and for other purposes, which require us to make minimum payments for our day-to-day business operations of approximately NT$4,669 million (US$143.3 million) in 2007. Insufficient liquidity could materially restrict our operations, require us to reduce our budgeted capital expenditures and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Borrowing funds, raising additional equity capital or converting long-term investments to liquid funds to meet our payment obligations and/or working capital requirements could adversely affect our financial condition or cause our shareholders to suffer dilution, and thereby adversely affect the price of our common shares, ADSs or GDSs. In addition, if we are or appear to be unable to make payments when due, we may be unable to continue operating, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings could be commenced against us and, if this occurs, the value of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs would be materially impaired. Restrictive covenants and broad default provisions in the agreements governing our existing debt may materially restrict our operations as well as adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are a party to numerous loan and other agreements relating to the incurrence of debt, many of which include restrictive covenants and broad default provisions. Our loan agreements contain covenants that require us to maintain specified ratios of debt to equity and current assets to current liabilities. In November 2003, we sold 475,000,000 new common shares for cash to increase shareholders’ equity pursuant to a share offering in Taiwan, and in April 2004, we issued 13,125,000 GDS representing 525,000,000 new common shares. Had we not conducted the share and GDS offerings, we would have had difficulty in meeting the debt to equity ratio contained in our loan covenants as of the end of 2003 and 2004. In February 2006, we cancelled 2,079,474,542 common shares at the book value of NT$20,794 million to offset accumulated deficits in order to improve our financial structure. We may need to issue additional shares, ADSs or GDSs to increase shareholders’ equity, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in selling all or any of such common shares, ADSs or GDSs. If we continue to incur losses, resulting in an erosion of our shareholders’ equity, and are unable to raise additional equity funding or renegotiate the terms of our loan agreements, we may be in default of financial covenants in the future. Such a default or defaults would seriously impair our ability to secure debt financing, and could require us to delay or cancel capital expansion plans, dispose of assets or take other steps to meet the financial ratios. Defaults or potential defaults in our financial covenants could also impair our ability to raise additional equity capital. 7 Table of Contents In general, covenants in the agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, may materially restrict our operations, including our ability to incur debt, repurchase our outstanding debt securities, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments and encumber or dispose of assets. A default under one agreement may also trigger cross-defaults under our other agreements. In the event of default, we may not be able to cure the default or obtain a waiver on a timely basis, and our operations could be significantly disrupted or harmed. An event of default under any agreement governing our existing or future debt, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and could seriously impair our ability to secure debt financing. Our revenues and operating results may decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner and at a reasonable price. Our manufacturing operations require that we obtain adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. Our primary raw materials include six-inch and eight-inch wafers, chemicals and gases and other inputs, which we purchase from a limited number of suppliers. In particular, wafer manufacturing capacity and supply in the Taiwan semiconductor industry have from time to time been, and in the future may be, in short supply, and our future growth will depend in large part on securing a continuous supply of six-inch and eight-inch wafers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner and at a reasonable price. Our revenue and operating results could decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of high quality raw materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials that we could not pass on to our customers. We are vulnerable to cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer in future downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Economic downturns historically have caused reduced product demand, rapid declines in product prices, low capacity utilization and production over-capacity. Between the second half of 2000 and the first half of 2003, the semiconductor industry was adversely affected by the sudden and rapid decline in worldwide demand for electronic products such as personal computers, computer peripherals, consumer electronics and other communications devices. As such, electronics systems and applications companies drastically reduced their orders for semiconductor devices to avoid further inventory accumulation. The severe and protracted downturn throughout 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003 resulted in a serious deterioration in the average selling prices of, as well as demand for, most of our products and materially adversely affected our operating results and financial 8 Table of Contents condition. Although conditions in the semiconductor industry improved between the third quarter of 2003 and the first half of 2004, the industry experienced another downturn that began in the second half of 2004 and continued through 2005. While conditions in the semi-conductor industry improved in 2006 and first quarter of 2007, we cannot predict when or whether the industry will recover. Even if the industry recovers, our product prices, sales volumes and margins may continue to be adversely affected during future cyclical downturns and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer accordingly. Our results of operations fluctuate significantly, which may affect the value of your investment Our historical net sales revenue and other results of operations have varied, at times significantly, from quarter–to–quarter and from year –to–year. For example, we had a net income under R.O.C. GAAP of NT$218 million in 2004, net loss of NT$7,027 million in 2005 and net income of NT$2,034 million (US$62 million) in 2006. Our future net sales revenue, gross profit (loss), operating income, net income (loss) and more generally, our business and results of operations, may vary significantly due to a combination of many factors, including: • changes in general economic and business conditions; • the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; • seasonality in demand for our customers’ products; • changes in demand for our products and our customers’ products; • technology development of our products and competing products; • changes in the average selling prices of our products; • inventory obsolescence; • our customers’ adjustments in their inventory; • the loss of or reduction of sales to a key customer or the postponement or cancellation of an order from a key customer; • our ability to obtain adequate labor, equipment, components, raw materials, electricity, water and other required production inputs on a timely and cost-efficient basis; • capital expenditures and production uncertainties relating to the roll-out of new facilities; • our ability to achieve target production yields, especially for new products; • our ability to accurately predict customer demand, as we must commit to significant capital expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • changes in our business strategy or technology roadmap; • natural disasters, such as fires, droughts, floods and earthquakes, or industrial accidents; • the long lead times in securing a qualification from our customers; • currency and interest rate fluctuations that may not be fully hedged; and • technological changes. Due to these factors and other risks, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which may in turn cause the prices of our securities to fall. 9 Table of Contents If we continue to experience significant investment losses from our investments, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have made and expect to continue to make a series of equity joint venture and strategic investments in companies located in Taiwan and elsewhere principally related to the semiconductor industry. As a result of market downturns, many of our invested companies experienced significant declines in their operating results. This in turn caused us to incur substantial investment losses as well as a reduction in the value of our equity interests in these companies. We incurred a net investment loss (which include losses under our equity derivative contract which had our common shares as the underlying reference securities) and net loss from equity investments of NT$155 million in 2004, NT$1,626 million in 2005 and NT$5 million (US$0.16 million) in 2006. Any further significant losses from our investments in the future may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we depend on ROM and Flash sales for a substantial portion of our revenue, a significant decrease in ROM or Flash sales or average selling prices could result in the loss of a significant portion of our revenue. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our ROM net sales were NT$8,373 million, NT$8,712 million and NT$10,183 million (US$312.5 million), respectively, or 35.8%, 46.1% and 43.3% respectively, of our net sales revenue in those periods. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our Flash net sales were NT$10,715 million, NT$6,870 million and NT$8,462 million (US$259.6 million), respectively, or 45.8%, 36.3% and 36.0%, respectively, of our net sales revenue in those periods. Historically, most of our ROM products have been used in video game cartridges. Competing technological alternatives, such as CD-ROMs, DVD-ROMs, magnetic disks and telephone-linked and internet databases, have been adopted by some video game machine producers for some applications. For example, Nintendo, which is our largest customer, migrated in 2001 to a game platform that utilized a DVD-ROM-based storage system. Nintendo is one of our major customers and accounted for 56.2%, 61.8% and 76.9% of our net ROM sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Sales to Nintendo are comprising increasing amounts of our net ROM sales. We are seeking to sustain our ROM sales volume by diversifying our customer base to include telecommunications, handheld computing and information devices and office automation equipment manufacturers and expanding the base of devices that may use ROM. We cannot assure you, however, that these initiatives will be successful. The Code Flash products market, in which our Flash products compete, is dominated by large players, including Spansion LLC. (“Spansion”, which is owned by AMD and Fujitsu), Intel Corporation (“Intel”), Sharp Corporation (“Sharp”) and STMicroelectronics NV (“STMicroelectronics”), all of which may have greater financial and other resources than our company. If we are unable to compete effectively in the Code Flash products market, our business and operating results will suffer. In addition, due to market conditions, average selling prices for our Flash products declined sharply beginning in the third quarter of 2004 and continuing into the first half of 2005. Although the average selling prices for our Flash products have remained at the same level since the second half of 2005, we cannot guarantee that the average selling prices for our Flash products will increase in the future. We also do not produce NAND Flash products and thus do not benefit from the growth in the NAND Flash market. Any significant reduction in the use of ROMs in the video game manufacturing industry and generally, and in the use of Code Flash generally, will significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in demand for consumer electronics, computer and computer peripheral and other communications products may significantly decrease the average selling prices for our products and reduce our revenue and operating results. A significant percentage of our net sales revenue (our gross sales revenue less sales returns and discounts) is derived from customers who use our products for consumer electronics, computers and computer peripherals and other communications products. The industries in which the manufacturers of these products operate are subject to rapid technological change, rapidly evolving industry standards and downward pricing pressures. A significant decrease in the demand for consumer electronics, computers and computer peripherals and other communications products due to business cycles or the non-acceptance of our customers’ products in the market, may decrease the demand for our products and could adversely affect our results of operations. Declining prices of these products also result in significant downward pressure on the prices of our products that are used in these products, which may cause the average selling prices for our products to decrease and our revenue and operating results to suffer. 10 Table of Contents If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, we may lose customers and our revenue may decrease. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. We compete with major international semiconductor companies, including Intel, Atmel Corporation (“Atmel”), Sharp, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Renesas Technology Corporation (“Renesas”), Silicon Storage Technology, Inc. (“SST”), Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (“Hynix”), Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), Oki Semiconductor Co. (“Oki”) and various other industry participants. Many of our competitors have greater access to capital and technology and have substantially greater production, research and development, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than our company. The principal elements of competition in our industry include: • technological expertise and technical competence; • time-to-market; • ability to obtain raw materials and components on a timely and cost-effective basis; • research and development capabilities and plans; • available capacity; • manufacturing capabilities and yields; • customer service; and • price. Moreover, since the basic manufacturing processes for the production of volatile and nonvolatile memory chips are similar, manufacturers of volatile memory products may migrate into our nonvolatile memory markets, which would create additional competition. Many of our competitors have shown a willingness to quickly and sharply reduce prices in order to maintain high capacity utilization in their facilities during periods of reduced demand. Any renewed erosion in the prices for our products could cause our profits to decrease and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to our high percentage of fixed costs, we will not be profitable if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates. Our operations are characterized by relatively high fixed costs, such as depreciation, and we expect this to continue. Our profitability depends not only on absolute pricing levels for our products, but also on utilization rates for our equipment, commonly referred to as “capacity utilization rates”. In particular, increases or decreases in our capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on gross margins since per-unit costs generally decrease as fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. In periods of low demand, we experience relatively low capacity utilization rates in our operations, which lead to reduced margins during such periods. This occurred in 2001, 2002, the first half of 2003, the first quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. Although our capacity utilization rates improved in 2004, 2005 and 2006, except in the first quarter of 2005 and 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability if we cannot consistently achieve or maintain relatively high capacity utilization rates. Furthermore, high capacity utilization rates in the absence of high demand could result in inventory buildup and obsolescence, which may result in write-downs of inventory. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Overview — General” for more detailed information about capacity utilization rates. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future revenues, adjust production costs and allocate capacity efficiently and on a timely basis. Our customers generally place purchase orders between one to two months before the desired shipment date, and our contracts with customers generally do not require minimum purchases of our products. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We cannot 11 Table of Contents assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future and at the same level as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that the volume of our customers’ orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures for raw materials, components, labor and equipment. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. At present, there is a shortage in Taiwan of persons with the special technical skill set we require. Further, although some of these personnel have entered into employment agreements with us, most of these employment agreements do not specify the duration of employment. Therefore, the relevant personnel may, subject to the terms of the relevant agreements, terminate such agreements at any time. We are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. We may not be able to either retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain our existing officers and employees and the additional personnel that we may require in the future. Moreover, in order to attract and retain personnel, we must devote significant resources to training and benefits. These benefits have historically and may in the future include bonuses in the form of our common shares or otherwise based on the performance of our stock. Because of the highly cyclical nature of our industry, our capital requirements are difficult to plan. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future operating results may be adversely affected. Our capital requirements are difficult to plan in our highly cyclical and rapidly changing industry. We will need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • our stock price and credit rating; • general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain external financing in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all, we may be unable to implement our expansion plans or conduct planned research and development and develop new products and our growth prospects and future operating results may decline. If we are unable to manage our expansion effectively, our growth prospects may be limited and our future operating results may be affected. We have significantly expanded our operations in recent years. Rapid expansion puts strain on our managerial, technical, financial, operational and other resources. As a result of our expansion, we have implemented and may continue to need to implement additional operational and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. Any failure to manage our expansion effectively could lead to inefficiencies and redundancies and result in reduced growth prospects and operating results. If we are unable to effectively manage seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our products, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our products. In particular, we typically generate higher sales during the third and fourth quarters of the year. In anticipation of the higher demand in these quarters and to smooth out and manage rationally the use of our capacity over the course of the full year, we typically build up inventory in the first and second quarters of the year. However, if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity or build up inventory ahead of demand to meet seasonal or additional future demand on a timely basis, our customers may seek other manufacturing 12 Table of Contents sources to meet their needs and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively manage our manufacturing capacity during a seasonal downturn in demand or if we build up inventory in anticipation of demand that does not materialize, our results of operations would also be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain additional equipment in a timely manner and at reasonable cost, our competitiveness and future operating results may be adversely affected. We expect to purchase a significant amount of additional equipment from time to time to continue to improve our technology and manufacturing processes. The market for our equipment is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. In addition, we do not have binding supply agreements with any of our suppliers and acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to substantial risks when market conditions change. As a result, if we are unable to obtain equipment and upgrade our technology in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to compete effectively and fulfill our customers’ requirements, which could adversely affect our growth prospects as well as our financial condition and results of operations. If needed cash resources are unavailable to us, we will be unable to implement successfully our research and development plans. To keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and to develop attractive and cost-effective products, we need to invest significantly in research and development. We may not be able to generate cash flow from operations in sufficient amounts to allow us to maintain our planned level of spending on research and development. Any failure to maintain adequate research and development spending could reduce our competitiveness and jeopardize our long-term prospects. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our operating results. All of our existing manufacturing operations are in Hsinchu, Taiwan, which is vulnerable to natural disasters. Disruption of operations at our manufacturing facilities for any reason, including earthquakes, droughts, power outages, typhoons or other events beyond our control, would cause delays in shipments of our products, which could result in the loss of revenue and/or customers. Taiwan is also susceptible to earthquakes and has experienced severe earthquakes that caused significant property damage and loss of life, particularly in the central and eastern parts of Taiwan. These earthquakes damaged production facilities and equipment and adversely affected the operations of many companies involved in the semiconductor and other industries, including our company. Moreover, there were interruptions to our production schedule primarily as a result of power outages caused by these earthquakes. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the rapid growth of the Taiwan semiconductor industry, which is primarily based in Hsinchu, there has been increased demand for water and electricity in that region. Any shortage of water or electricity could have a material and adverse effect on our operations. Many areas in Taiwan experienced a severe drought in 2002 causing Taiwan authorities to announce water-rationing measures in the northern parts of Taiwan. If a drought occurs again and authorities are unable to source water from alternative sources in sufficient quantities, we may be required to temporarily shut down or substantially reduce production at our facilities in the affected areas, which would seriously affect our operations. Many of our suppliers and customers and providers of semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan. If our customers are affected by an earthquake, a drought or other natural disasters, it could result in a decline in the demand for our products and services. If our suppliers and providers of semiconductor manufacturing services are affected, our production schedule could be interrupted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, drought or other natural disaster in Taiwan could severely disrupt the normal operation of business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we maintain several insurance policies relating to our business, including business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us from potential losses resulting from natural disasters and other events beyond our control. In addition, we cannot assure you that the premium payable for these insurance policies upon renewal will not increase substantially, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any failure or inability to obtain the necessary insurance coverage on a timely basis, or at all, may severely increase our operating risk. We are subject to stringent environmental regulations and any violation could require us to pay significant fines, or result in a delay or interruption of our operations. We are subject to environmental regulations relating to our manufacturing processes, including the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by-products of, and water used in, our production process. A failure or a claim that we have failed, to comply with these environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of significant fines, delays in our production and capacity expansion and negative publicity, all of which could harm our business. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. In addition, any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we restate our financial statements again in the future, we could experience a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. Subsequent to the filing of our initial annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in the process of addressing certain comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission on such annual report, we discovered that certain U.S. GAAP-related financial information was miscalculated. As a result we restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 with respect to certain U.S. GAAP financial information relating to non-cash charges and adjustments to interest expense, retained earnings, additional paid-in capital and convertible bond payable which contains embedded derivatives. We filed our restated financial statements in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2005 on July 17, 2006. If we are required to revise, amend or restate our financial statements again in the future, we could experience a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares, ADSs or GDSs. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Deloitte & Touche, an independent registered public accounting firm, has identified significant deficiencies which, combined, constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Although we will implement procedures and programs to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting and remedy this material weakness, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We are required to comply with various R.O.C. and U.S. laws and regulations on internal controls. For example, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we are required to furnish a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, R.O.C. law requires us to establish internal control systems that would reasonably ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are also required under R.O.C. law to file an internal control declaration within four months of the end of each fiscal year. Internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to repair the material weakness identified in our internal controls or if we fail to institute and follow adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Technology and Intellectual Property Our return to profitability depends on our ability to respond to rapid technological changes in the semiconductor industry. The markets for semiconductors and electronic systems that use semiconductor products are subject to rapid technological change. This rapid change results in: • introduction of new and increasingly complex and powerful products; • rapidly evolving industry standards; • rapid and significant product price declines; • rapid product obsolescence; and • introduction of competing technologies and solutions. Our success depends on our ability to improve and develop our core technologies in a rapidly changing technological environment. In particular, we expect that we will need to constantly offer more sophisticated technologies and processes in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to identify new product opportunities or to timely develop and successfully market new products. We may also experience delays in developing or achieving volume production of new products. Moreover, our new products may fail to gain market acceptance, and existing products may become obsolete. For example, our sales of ROM products fell when Nintendo shifted to DVD-ROM technology in its newer gaming console products, and may continue to fall further as products move to competing technologies. If we fail to develop, or obtain access to, advances to technologies and processes, we may become less competitive and be unable to return to profitability. We depend on our technology partners to advance our portfolio of process technologies, and we may not be able to advance our portfolio of process technologies if our technology partners fail to advance their technology, if we fail to maintain our existing arrangements with our technology partners or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with other technology providers. Enhancing our product design and manufacturing process technologies is critical to our ability to provide products and services for our customers. In particular, we have an internal research and development team focusing on developing new semiconductor manufacturing process technologies. We also depend on our technology arrangements with leading integrated device manufacturers and fabless semiconductor companies, consumer electronics and communications companies and other technology providers to advance our portfolio of process technologies. We believe these arrangements help reduce our development costs and capital expenditures and increase the capacity utilization rates in our fabrication plants. If we are unable to maintain successful technology arrangements on mutually beneficial economic terms, or are unable to enter into new technology arrangements with other leading semiconductor companies, electronics companies and other technology providers, we may not be able to continue providing our customers with leading-edge process technologies, which may adversely affect our competitiveness as well as our business and prospects. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions that can significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified to improve manufacturing yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process or defects with respect to equipment or supporting facilities can lower manufacturing yields, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity has increased and process technology has become more sophisticated, requirements for precision have become even more stringent. In particular, defective production can result from a number of factors, including: • the cleanliness of the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • use of defective raw materials; and • inadequate testing. From time to time, we experience lower than anticipated production yields as a result of these factors, particularly in connection with the expansion of our capacity or changes in our processing methods. Our yield on new products is often lower as time is required for us to develop expertise and experience in producing these products. We typically sell our products on a per-die basis and lower yields can reduce the number of units we can sell, which causes our revenues and profits to suffer. If we fail to maintain high quality production standards and yields, our business and operating results may suffer and our customers may cancel their orders or return our products. Our business depends in part on our ability to obtain and preserve intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on patents, copyrights and trade secret protection rights to protect some of our proprietary technologies and 15 Table of Contents products. We cannot assure you that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property or commercial advantage. For example, our competitors may be able to use our technologies to develop similar or superior products, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to protect and enforce our rights. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate to protect our proprietary technologies, but the process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive. In addition, patents may not be issued for pending or future applications. Furthermore, if patents are issued, they may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the various countries in which we market our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Research and Development” and “—Intellectual Property”. We may be subject to intellectual property rights disputes that could expose us to serious liabilities. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere until the applications or resulting patent (if one is granted) are made available to the public. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. We are currently involved in certain litigation matters involving patent infringement. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time we receive communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies and alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. We expect to receive similar communications in the future. If a valid claim is made against us or our customers, we may be required to: • discontinue using process technologies which could cause us to stop manufacturing particular semiconductors; • pay substantial monetary damages: • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology which may not be available on reasonable commercial terms, or at all. We could be seriously harmed by any of these developments. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Our failure to obtain necessary licenses, the occurrence of patent infringement or other intellectual property litigation could seriously harm our company. In addition, although we have from time to time made a reserve in anticipation of royalty payments we may potentially be required to make in relation to any possible claims or allegations, we cannot assure you that we have made, or will continue to make, sufficient reserve for all claims and allegations against our company for any patent infringement. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings”. Political and Economic Risks Strained relations between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. could adversely affect our business and the market value of your investment. Our principal executive offices and most of our assets are located in, and most of our revenue is derived from, our operations in Taiwan. The R.O.C. has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China (“P.R.C.”) asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan. The P.R.C. government does not recognize the legitimacy of the R.O.C. government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established in recent years between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C., relations have often been strained and the P.R.C. government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in some circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by the R.O.C. Relations between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. have been particularly strained in recent years. Occasional speeches and statements by President Chen Shui-Bian hinting at independence issues and reactions of Chinese officials to these speeches and statements have increased tensions between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C.. In March 2005, the P.R.C. passed an anti-secession law which sanctions the use of force against the R.O.C. if the R.O.C. formally declares its independence. Past developments in relations between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. have on occasion depressed the market price of the securities of R.O.C. companies. Relations between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions in Taiwan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign exchange losses. The majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen. Our costs of revenues and operating expenses, on the other hand, are incurred in several currencies, including N.T. dollars and U.S. dollars. In addition, a substantial portion of our capital expenditures has been and is expected to continue to be, primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily among the U.S. dollar, the N.T. dollar and the Japanese yen, will affect our costs and operating margins. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in N.T. dollar and other local currency terms. Despite hedging and mitigating techniques implemented by us from time to time, fluctuations in exchange rates have affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currencies”. Disruptions in the international trading environment may significantly reduce our international sales and revenue. A substantial portion of our net sales revenue is derived from sales from Taiwan to customers located outside Taiwan. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, export sales from Taiwan to our customers outside Taiwan accounted for 66.5%, 70.2% and 68.5% respectively, of our net sales revenue. We expect sales to customers outside Taiwan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales revenue. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our securities may be affected by changes in governmental policies, inflation, increasing interest rates, social instability and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting the countries in which we sell our products that are not within our control. As a result, our business will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest and international economic downturns. These disruptions in the international trading environment affect the demand for our products and the terms upon which we sell our products overseas, which may significantly reduce our international sales and revenue. The trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the economic performance of Taiwan. Our common shares are listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The trading price of our common shares may be affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the economic performance of Taiwan. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is smaller and, as a market, more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and a number of European countries. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In the past decade, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 10,202 in February 2000 and subsequently fell to a low of 3,446 in October 2001. During 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 7,823.72 on December 29, 2006 and reached a low of 6,257.8 on July 17, 2006. During 2006, daily closing prices of our common shares ranged from NT$3.59 per share on March 27, 2006 to NT$ 15.05 per share on November 28, 2006. On June 29, 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 8,883.21 and the daily closing value of our common shares was NT$15.55 per share. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability, such as when relations between Taiwan and the P.R.C. are strained. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems such as market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could decrease the market prices and liquidity of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. In response to past declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, and in line with similar activities by other countries in Asia, the government of the R.O.C. formed the Stabilization Fund, which has purchased and may from time to time purchase shares of Taiwan companies to support these markets. In addition, other funds associated with the R.O.C. government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. In the future, market activity by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. Risks Relating to our Common Shares, ADSs and GDSs The market for our common shares and ADSs may be inactive and illiquid, and trading of our GDSs has been extremely illiquid, which may affect the value of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs. The average daily trading volumes for our common shares and ADSs have fluctuated greatly in the past. During 2006, the average daily trading volume of our common shares was approximately 21,230,000 shares. During the same period, the average daily trading volume of our ADSs was approximately 9,405,000 units. Since our 17 Table of Contents GDSs began trading in April 2004, trading of our GDSs has been extremely illiquid, and the underlying common shares have been withdrawn with respect to a substantial majority of our GDSs. As of May 31, 2007, GDS holders representing over 99.97% of our GDSs issued in April 2004 have withdrawn from our GDS program and converted their GDSs to common shares. We cannot assure you that the liquidity of our common shares or ADSs will be maintained or enhanced and expect that trading in our GDSs will continue to be extremely illiquid. Accordingly, the value of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs could decrease if it is difficult to convert them into cash readily. In addition, the EU Transparency Obligations Directive is currently being finalized and may be implemented in Luxembourg, where our GDSs are listed, in a manner that is unduly burdensome for our company. In particular, we may be required to publish financial statements in the EU prepared in accordance with, or reconciled to, International Financial Reporting Standards. In such circumstances we may decide to seek an alternative listing for the GDSs on a stock exchange outside the European Union, and GDS holders may incur extra exchange costs or taxes upon disposal of their GDSs. Future sales of securities by our company or existing shareholders or future issuances of securities by our company may have a dilutive effect and decrease the value of your investment. The market price of our common shares and ADSs and GDSs could decline as a result of future sales of a large number of common shares, ADSs or GDSs or the perception that such sales could occur. If we or the holders of our common shares, ADSs or GDSs sell a large number of common shares, ADSs or GDSs, or the perception develops that such an event may occur, the market price for the common shares, ADSs or GDSs could be depressed. In particular, if cash flow from operations is insufficient to allow us to conduct our day-to-day operations or to redeem or otherwise repay our debt or if net losses reduce our equity near or below the minimum level stipulated in covenants under our bank loans, we may need to issue more common shares, ADSs or GDSs in the future, or the perception may arise that we need to do so. In addition, we plan to issue, from time to time, additional common shares in connection with employee compensation as well as to finance possible future investments or acquisitions. The issuance of additional shares may have a dilutive effect on other shareholders and may cause the price of our common shares, ADSs and GDSs to decrease. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — F. Stock Option Plans” for a discussion of the share option plan that we have adopted for the benefit of all of our officers and employees and those of our subsidiaries. ADS and GDS holders do not have the same voting rights as our common shareholders, which may affect the value of the ADSs and GDSs. The voting rights of ADS and GDS holders as to the common shares represented by the ADSs or GDSs are limited to the extent set forth in the relevant deposit agreement. With respect to matters other than the election of our directors or supervisors, ADS and GDS holders generally are not able to exercise voting rights on an individual basis. With respect to matters other than the election of our directors or supervisors, if holders representing 51% of the outstanding ADSs or GDSs, as the case may be, instruct the depositary to vote in a particular manner, the depositary will cause all common shares represented by the ADSs or GDSs to be voted in that manner. If the depositary does not receive instructions representing at least 51% of the outstanding ADSs or GDSs, as the case may be, to vote in a particular manner, ADS or GDS holders, as the case may be, will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to authorize all the common shares represented by their ADSs or GDSs to be voted at the discretion of our designated representative, which may not be in the interest of all ADS or GDSs holders. The R.O.C. Company Law and our articles of incorporation provide that a shareholder has one vote for each common share. There is also cumulative voting for the election of directors and supervisors. The rights of holders of our ADSs and GDSs to participate in our rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the ADS deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to holders of ADSs unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to holders of ADSs are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Under the GDS deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to holders of GDSs if it deems the distribution of rights to holders of GDSs not to be lawful and reasonably practicable. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be 18 Table of Contents declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs and GDSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing Taiwanese corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Taiwan law are different from those that apply to a U.S. corporation. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests against certain actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. ADS and GDS holders may be required to appoint agents in Taiwan to handle various tax and administrative matters if they withdraw common shares from our ADS or GDS program and become shareholders, which may make share ownership burdensome. Non-R.O.C. persons wishing to withdraw their common shares from our ADS or GDS program and become shareholders are required under current R.O.C. laws and regulations to appoint a local agent or representative (a “Tax Guarantor”) in Taiwan for making tax payments on their behalf. A Tax Guarantor must meet certain qualifications set by the R.O.C. Ministry of Finance and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of the holder’s R.O.C. tax obligations. Holders wishing to repatriate profits derived from the sale of common shares or cash dividends or interest derived from any such common shares, will be generally required to submit evidence of appointment of a Tax Guarantor and the approval of the appointment by the R.O.C. tax authorities. We cannot assure you that you will be able to appoint and obtain approval for a Tax Guarantor in a timely manner. Under R.O.C. law and regulations, citizens of the P.R.C. are not permitted to hold our common shares. In addition, under current R.O.C. law, such ADS or GDS holders will be required to appoint a local agent in Taiwan to, among other things, open a securities trading account with a local securities brokerage firm, remit funds and exercise shareholders’ rights. They must also appoint a local bank to act as custodian for handling confirmation and settlement of trades, safekeeping of securities and cash proceeds and reporting and declaration of information. In addition, they will be required to register with the Taiwan Stock Exchange for making investments in the R.O.C. securities market (and if you are an offshore foreign institutional investor, to obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank of the Republic of China) prior to withdrawing common shares. Without meeting these requirements, non-R.O.C. persons will not be able to hold, subsequently sell or otherwise transfer our common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Changes in exchange controls which restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs or GDSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Under current R.O.C. law, a holder of our ADSs or GDSs who withdraws and becomes a holder of our common shares may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of the Republic of China on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from N.T. dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights for new common shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of the Republic of China will grant this approval as a routine matter, we cannot assure you that in the future any approval will be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. See “Item 10. Additional Information — D. Exchange Controls”. Furthermore, pursuant to the R.O.C. Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the R.O.C. government may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval, impose foreign exchange controls in the event of, among others, a material change in international economic conditions. We cannot assure you that foreign exchange controls or other restrictions will not be introduced in the future. When withdrawing the underlying common shares of the ADSs or GDSs, you may be required to provide certain information to us or the Depositary, and failure to provide such information may result in a delay of the withdrawal. When withdrawing the underlying common shares of ADSs or GDSs, you may be required to provide certain information to us or the depositary, including the name and nationality of the person to be registered as the shareholder, the number of common shares to be acquired by such person and the number of common shares acquired by such person in the past through the date of the withdrawal of the underlying common shares. Under applicable R.O.C. laws, we are required to report to the R.O.C. Securities and Futures Bureau (the “R.O.C. SFB”) if the person to be registered as a shareholder (i) is a “related party” of ours as defined in the R.O.C. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 6 or (ii) will hold, immediately following such withdrawal, more than 10% of the underlying common shares of the ADSs or GDSs. Failure to provide such information may cause the delay of such withdrawal of the underlying common shares. 19 Table of Contents 