ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We Incurred Substantial Indebtedness to Finance the Merger and May Not Be Able to Meet Our Substantial Debt Service Requirements. We incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the Merger. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness under the Credit Facilities was approximately $320.0 million. In addition, we have the ability to borrow an additional $30.4 million under the Revolving Loan Facility. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to meet our obligations under our new Credit Facilities, we may be required to refinance, restructure or otherwise amend some or all of such obligations, sell assets or raise additional cash through the sale of equity. We cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such refinancing on terms as favorable as those set forth in the Credit Facilities or that such restructuring activities, sales of assets or issuances of equity can be accomplished or, if accomplished, would raise sufficient funds to meet these obligations. These provisions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to withstand competitive pressures or adverse economic conditions (including adverse regulatory changes); could adversely affect our ability to make material acquisitions, obtain future financing or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in economic conditions or in our business. Our Credit Facilities Contain Restrictions That Will Limit Our Flexibility in Operating our Business. Our Credit Facilities contain restrictive covenants, subject to certain basket amounts and exceptions. These covenants impose significant operating restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including our and their ability to: ● incur or amend certain types of indebtedness and liens; ● merge with, make an investment in or acquire any property or assets of another company; ● make capital expenditures; ● pay cash dividends; ● repurchase shares of our outstanding stock; ● make loans; 23 ● dispose of assets (including the equity securities of our subsidiaries); or ● prepay the principal on any subordinate indebtedness (including prepayments of indebtedness under the Second Lien Credit Agreement while any indebtedness is outstanding under the First Lien Credit Agreement). Unless we receive a consent or a waiver from our lenders, these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies and/or undertake actions that may be in our best interests. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive a consent or waiver on acceptable terms, if at all. Our Credit Facilities Require Us to Dedicate Substantially All of Cash Flow From Operations to the Payment of Principal and Interest, Which Will Reduce Our Ability to Use Our Cash Flow to Fund Our Operations, Capital Expenditures and Future Business Opportunities. The First Lien Credit Agreement requires us to make quarterly principal amortization payments of between 5.0% and 12.5% of the $240.0 million total loan per year through maturity. In addition, we are required to make Mandatory Prepayments under the First Lien and Second Lien Credit Agreements (subject to certain basket amounts and exceptions) equal to: ● 75% of our excess free cash flow on an annual basis, beginning for the year ended December 31, 2012. (50% if our total leverage ratio is 2.00x or lower on the last day of any applicable year); ● 50% of the net proceeds from publicly-offered equity issuances (25% if our senior leverage ratio is 1.25x or lower on the last day of the last fiscal quarter prior to such equity issuance for which financial statements were required to be delivered to the lenders); and ● 100% of the net proceeds from asset sales, permitted debt issuances and extraordinary receipts. Any amounts required to be applied to Mandatory Prepayments under our Credit Facilities as described above would not be available to us for any other purpose, including to fund our future operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities, which may severely limit our liquidity and adversely affect our ability to grow our business and/or take advantage of unanticipated business opportunities. The Credit Facilities Substantially Limit Our Ability to Prepay or Refinance the Second Lien Term Facility. Borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement accrue interest at a significantly higher rate of interest than borrowings under the First Lien Credit Agreement. Prior to the repayment of all borrowings under the First Lien Credit Agreement, we are not permitted to prepay any borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement without the prior consent of the First Lien Lenders and/or retirement of the First Lien Credit Agreement. As a result, our ability to prepay or refinance the more expensive Second Lien Term Facility prior to the repayment of all borrowings under the First Lien Credit Agreement will be severely limited. Furthermore, to the extent a prepayment of borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement is permitted, such prepayment will be subject to a make-whole payment (including a prepayment penalty of 5.0%) if the prepayment is made prior to May 4, 2013, or a prepayment penalty (without the requirement of a make-whole payment) of between 5.0% and 2.0% if the prepayment is made between May 4, 2013 and October 3, 2015, respectively, which has the effect of substantially increasing the cost to us of any refinancing of the Second Lien Term Facility if replacement debt is available on more favorable terms than the Second Lien Term Facility. Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Liquidity, Interest Expense and Financial Results. The Credit Facilities have variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense may increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in the Credit Facilities may be adversely affected. We entered into an interest rate cap effective December 4, 2011, which provides interest rate protection in the event LIBOR exceeds 1.5%. This interest rate cap has a notional amount of $157.5 million, which notional amount will decrease to $134.1 million over the life of the agreement, and expires on September 30, 2014. Notwithstanding this interest rate cap, we are still subject to interest rate risk with respect to indebtedness above the notional amount of the interest rate cap and, unless we extend or replace the interest rate cap, with respect to any portion of the indebtedness outstanding after September 30, 2014. 24 Reductions in Funding for Medicare Programs and Other Provisions Under the Recent Healthcare Reform Legislation and Future Related Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Revenue and Profitability The Reform Acts made significant changes to the Medicare program and to the health insurance market overall. A number of provisions of healthcare reform legislation have been implemented, and other provisions are scheduled to take effect between now and 2018. Potentially adverse provisions include: ● Medicare Advantage benchmarks for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels. Beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage benchmark rates will be phased down from current levels to levels that are between 95% and 115% of fee-for-service costs, depending on a plan’s geographic area. Plans receiving certain quality ratings by CMS will be eligible for bonus rate increases. ● Rebates received by Medicare Advantage plans that “underbid” based on payment benchmarks will be reduced, with larger reductions for plans failing to receive certain quality ratings. ● The Secretary of HHS is granted explicit authority to deny Medicare Advantage plan bids that propose significant increases in cost sharing or decreases in benefits. ● Beginning in 2014, Medicare Advantage plans with medical loss ratios below 85% will be required to pay a rebate to the Secretary of HHS. The Secretary will halt enrollment in any plan failing to meet this ratio for three consecutive years, and terminate any plan failing to meet the ratio for five consecutive years. ● Since January 1, 2011, cost-sharing for certain services (such as chemotherapy and skilled nursing care) has been limited to the cost-sharing permitted under Original Medicare. ● Prescription drug plans are now required to cover all drugs on a list developed by the Secretary of HHS, and the Part D premium subsidy for high-income beneficiaries has been reduced by 25%. Substantially all of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from the monthly premium payments paid by CMS to the Contracting HMOs. As a result, our business and results of operations are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare Advantage programs. Any changes that limit or reduce Medicare reimbursement levels, such as reductions in or limitations of reimbursement amounts or rates under programs, reductions in funding of programs, expansion of benefits without adequate funding, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Due to the Reform Acts’ recent passage, scope and complexity, the unsettled nature of the reforms and the numerous steps required to implement them, and our inability to predict or dictate how the Contracting HMO’s Participating Customers and/or our various direct and indirect competitors will react to the Reform Acts, we believe that we have limited ability to predict the direct and indirect effects of the Reform Acts upon the Medicare Advantage industry and us. For instance, although we anticipate that we will experience a decline in per beneficiary payment rates under the Reform Acts, we also anticipate the impact of such reduction on us will be mitigated, by some indeterminate amount by some of the following factors: enhanced medical management that will reduce the cost of care, reduced plan benefit offerings, increased customer co-pays and deductibles, the potential for plan quality bonuses, improved plan risk score compliance and/or other factors. We note that, although we are seeking to implement various operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the Reform Acts, our ability to anticipate and effectuate certain initiatives is significantly restricted since we have limited ability to influence, among other things, the Contracting HMOs’ marketing efforts to increase enrollment in the plans that we serve, the plan benefits offered by the Contracting HMOs, the plan co-pays and deductibles set by the Contracting HMOs and/or the quality ratings received by the Contracting HMO plans that we serve. If we fail to realize our operational and strategic objectives with respect to the Reform Acts for any reason, it is reasonably possible that our business may be materially adversely affected by the Reform Acts and related regulations. As a result, changes to Medicare Advantage health plan reimbursement rates stemming from the Reform Acts as well as newly enacted and future regulations adopted in connection therewith may negatively impact our business, revenue and profitability. In addition, the Reform Acts established a Medicare shared savings program for Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) which took effect in January 2012. Under this shared savings program, the Secretary of HHS may contract with eligible organizations, including group medical practices, to be accountable for the quality, cost and overall care of Medicare beneficiaries assigned to the ACO. Participating ACOs that meet specified quality performance standards will be eligible to share in any savings below a specified benchmark amount. The Secretary of HHS is also authorized, but not required, to use capitation payment models with ACOs. The development and expansion of ACOs has the potential to adversely impact our business, revenue and profitability. 25 There are numerous steps required to implement the Reform Acts, and Congress may seek to alter or eliminate some of the provisions described above. Numerous legal challenges have also been raised to the Reform Acts that could alter or eliminate certain provisions. The United States Supreme Court is expected to review challenges to the Reform Acts in March 2012, including whether, if the health insurance mandate is not constitutional, all or some other portions of the Reform Acts are not severable and cannot be implemented. A decision is expected by the end of June 2012. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms and numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what additional health insurance reforms may be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. However, the enacted reforms as well as future legislative changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including lowering our reimbursement rates and increasing our expenses. Our Operations are Dependent on Competing HMOs and, at Times, Their and Our Economic Interests May Diverge. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 94.2%, of our revenue was earned through our contracts with Humana. We also have contracts with United, Coventry and Wellcare, among others. These contracts were assumed pursuant to our acquisition of Continucare and Continucare’s results are reflected in our financial results from the date of the completion of the acquisition, October 4, 2011. We expect the percentage of revenue from these agreements to increase in 2012, the first full year in which Continucare’s business and results will be reflected in our financial results. We expect that, going forward, substantially all of our revenue will continue to be derived from these Contracting HMOs. Each Contracting HMO may immediately terminate any of our contracts and/or any individual physician credentialed upon the occurrence of certain events. They may also amend the material terms of our contracts under certain circumstances. See “Item 1. Business” for a detailed discussion of our agreements with the Contracting HMOs. Failure to maintain the contracts on favorable terms, for any reason, would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A material decline in enrollees in any of the Contracting HMOs Medicare Advantage plan could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Notwithstanding each Contracting HMOs’ and our current shared interest in providing service to our Participating Customers enrolled in the subject Contracting HMOs, we and the Contracting HMOs may have different and, at times, opposing economic interests. The Contracting HMOs provide a wide range of health insurance services across a wide range of geographic regions, utilizing a vast network of providers. As a result, they and we may have different views regarding the proper pricing of our services and/or the proper pricing of the various service providers in their provider networks, the cost of which we bear to the extent we utilize such service providers. These HMOs may also have views different than we do regarding the efforts and expenditures that they, we and/or other service providers should make to achieve and/or maintain various quality ratings. Similarly, as a result of changes in laws, regulations, consumer preferences or other factors, the Contracting HMOs may find it in their best interest to provide health insurance services in Florida pursuant to another payment or reimbursement structure. In the event our interests diverge, we may have limited recourse or alternative options in light of our dependence on these Contracting HMOs. There can be no assurances that we will continue to find it mutually beneficial to work together. As a result of various restrictive provisions that appear in some of our managed care agreements with Contracting HMOs, we or our PSN may, at times, have limitations on our ability to cancel an agreement with one Contracting HMO and immediately thereafter contract with a competing HMO with respect to the same service area. Furthermore, under the Credit Facilities, the termination of any agreement that generates greater than 20% of our consolidated annual gross profit (unless replaced by a substantially similar agreement within thirty days), or the termination of any healthcare permits or any payment programs or reimbursement authorizations sponsored or maintained by any government payer, private insurer, or managed care plan, will constitute an event of default, in which case the lenders under the Credit Facilities may, among other things, accelerate all or any portion of the unpaid principal amount of the outstanding loans thereunder and/or exercise any other rights and remedies available to them under our loan documents and applicable law. We May be Required to Continue Providing Services Following Termination of Certain of Our Agreements with Contracting HMOs. 26 Under our agreements with the Contracting HMOs, there are circumstances under which we could be obligated to continue to provide medical services to Participating Customers in our care following a termination of the applicable agreement. In certain cases, this obligation could require us to provide care to Participating Customers following the bankruptcy or insolvency of a Contracting HMO. Accordingly, our obligations to provide medical services to our Participating Customers (and the associated costs we incur) may not terminate at the time that our agreement with the Contracting HMO terminates, and we may not be able to recover our cost of providing those services from the Contracting HMO, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. All of Our PSN Operations are Concentrated in the State of Florida, and We May Not be Able to Successfully Establish a Presence in New Geographic Markets. We derive substantially all of our revenue from our PSN, which operates exclusively in the State of Florida. As a result, our exposure to many of the risks described herein are not mitigated by a diversification of geographic focus. Furthermore, due to the concentration of our PSN operations in the State of Florida, our business may be adversely affected by economic conditions, natural disasters (such as hurricanes), or acts of war or terrorism that disproportionately affect Florida as compared to other states. To expand our PSN operations outside of Florida, we will have to devote resources to identifying and exploring such perceived opportunities. Thereafter, we will have to, among other things, recruit and retain qualified personnel, develop new offices, establish potentially new relationships with an HMO and establish new relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers. In addition, if we were to seek expansion outside of Florida, we would be required to comply with laws and regulations of states that may differ from the ones in which we currently operate, and could face competitors with greater knowledge of such local markets. We anticipate that any geographic expansion may require us to make a substantial investment of management time, capital and/or other resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish a profitable PSN operation in any new geographic markets. Reductions in the Quality Ratings of the HMO Plans We Serve Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and/or Cash Flow. As a result of the Reform Acts, we anticipate the level of reimbursement each Contracting HMO receives from CMS will be dependent in part upon the quality rating of their Medicare plans that we serve. Such ratings are expected to impact the percentage of any Cost Savings Rebate and any Bonuses earned by the Contracting HMO. Since substantially all of our revenue for 2012 is expected to be calculated as a percentage of CMS reimbursements received by these Contracting HMOs with respect to Participating Customers, reductions in the quality ratings of an HMO plan that we serve could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Given each Contracting HMO’s control of its plans and the many other providers that serve such plans, we believe we will have limited ability to influence the overall quality rating of any such plan. Future Reductions in Funding for Medicare Programs and other Healthcare Reform Initiatives Could Adversely Affect Our Profitability. Substantially all of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from reimbursements generated by Medicare Advantage plans. As a result, our revenue and profitability are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare Advantage programs. The Medicare programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, prospective and retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings, and funding restrictions, any of which could have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels. These government programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and continue to take steps to control the cost, use and delivery of healthcare services. For instance, the Reform Acts froze the 2011 Medicare Advantage payment benchmarks at 2010 levels and thereafter reduce future year benchmark payments pursuant to a statutorily prescribed schedule. The Reform Acts also established a new Independent Payment Advisory Board to recommend ways to reduce Medicare spending if the increase in Medicare costs per capita exceeds certain targets, which will be implemented unless Congress passes alternative legislation that achieves the same savings, and the BCA mandates a 2% decrease in Medicare Advantage spending. Additional steps could be taken by government agencies and plan providers to further restrict, directly or indirectly, the reimbursements available to plan service providers. 27 We May Not be Able to Successfully Integrate Continucare’s Operations with Our Own or Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger, which Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Business Prospects. We may not be able to successfully integrate Continucare’s operations with our own, and we may not realize all or any of the expected benefits of the Merger as and when planned. The integration of Continucare’s operations with our own will be complex, costly and time-consuming. We expect that the integration of Continucare’s operations will require significant attention from our senior management and will impose substantial demands on our operations and personnel, potentially diverting attention from other important pending projects. The difficulties and risks associated with the integration of Continucare’s operations include, but are not limited to: ● the possibility that we will fail to implement our business plans for the combined company, including as a result of new legislation or regulation in the healthcare industry that affects the timing or costs associated with the operations of the combined company or our integration plan; ● possible inconsistencies between our standards, controls, procedures, policies and compensation structures and those of Continucare; ● the increased scope and complexity of our operations following the Merger; ● the potential loss of key employees and the costs associated with our efforts to retain key employees; ● provisions in our and Continucare’s contracts with third parties that may limit our flexibility to take certain actions; ● risks and limitations on our ability to consolidate the corporate and administrative infrastructures of the two companies; ● the possibility that we may have failed to discover liabilities of Continucare during our due diligence investigation as part of the Merger for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible; ● obligations that we will have to joint venture partners and other counterparties of Continucare that arise as result of the change in control of Continucare; and ● the possibility of unanticipated delays, costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of Continucare’s operations with ours. As a result of these difficulties and risks, we may not accomplish the integration of Continucare’s business smoothly, successfully or within our budgetary expectations and anticipated timetable. Accordingly, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, such as increases in our scale, diversification, cash flows and operational efficiency and meaningful accretion to our diluted earnings per share. We May be Unable to Realize Projected Cost Synergies or May Incur Additional and Unexpected Costs in Order to Realize Them. We project that we will realize approximately $5.0 million of operating synergies per year following the completion of the Merger, beginning in 2012. We may be unable to realize all of these cost synergies within the timeframe expected, or at all, and we may incur additional and unexpected costs in order to realize them. Our Records and Submissions to an HMO May Contain Inaccurate or Unsupportable Information Regarding Risk Adjustment Scores of Participating Customers, which Could Cause Us to Overstate or Understate Our Revenue and Subject Us to Various Penalties. We submit to Contracting HMOs claims and encounter data that support the risk adjustment scores of our Participating Customers, which determine, in part, the revenue to which the plan provider and we are entitled for such Participating Customers. This data is submitted to CMS by each HMO based on medical charts and diagnosis codes prepared and submitted by us. Each HMO generally relies on us to appropriately document and support such risk-adjustment data in their medical records and appropriately code customer claims. Inaccurate or unsupportable coding, inaccurate records for new Participating Customers, and erroneous claims and encounter recording and submissions could result in inaccurate capitation fee revenue and risk adjustment payments, which are subject to correction or retroactive adjustment in later periods. Payments that we receive in connection with this corrected or adjusted information may be reflected in financial statements for periods subsequent to the period in which the revenue was recorded. We, Contracting HMOs or CMS through a medical records review and risk adjustment validation, may also find that data regarding our Participating Customers’ risk scores, when reconciled, requires that we refund a portion of the revenue that we received, which refund, depending on its magnitude, could damage our relationship with the subject Contracting HMO and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. 28 CMS has been auditing Medicare Advantage plans for compliance by the plans and their providers with proper coding practices. The Medicare Advantage plans audited include both plans selected at random, as well as plans targeted for review based on a studied analysis of plans that have experienced significant increases in risk scores. CMS's targeted medical reviews can result in payment adjustments and in February 2012, CMS indicated that, starting with payment year 2011, payment adjustments will not be limited to risk scores for the specific beneficiaries for which errors are found but may be extrapolated to the entire Medicare Advantage plan subject to a particular CMS contract. Although CMS has described its audit process as plan year specific, CMS has not specifically stated that payment adjustments as a result of one plan year's audit will not be extrapolated to prior plan years. There can be no assurance that a Contracting HMO will not be randomly selected or targeted for review by CMS. In the event that a Medicare Advantage plan of a Contracting HMO is selected for a review, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such a review will not result in a material adjustment in our revenue and profitability, even if the information we submitted to the plan is accurate and supportable. Since the CMS rules, regulations and statements regarding this audit program are still not well defined in some respects, there is also a risk that CMS may adopt new rules and regulations that are inconsistent with their existing rules, regulations and statements. Under Most of Our Agreements With Contracting HMOs, We Assume Some or All of The Risk That the Cost of Providing Services Will Exceed Our Compensation. A significant portion of our revenue is earned under risk agreements under which we receive a monthly capitation fee for each Participating Customer. In accordance with the agreements, the total monthly payment is a function of the number of Participating Customers, regardless of the actual utilization rate of covered services. In return, the PSN assumes financial responsibility for the provision of all necessary medical care to the Participating Customers, regardless of whether or not its affiliated providers directly provide the covered medical services. To the extent that the Participating Customers require more care than is anticipated, aggregate capitation rates may be insufficient to cover the costs associated with the treatment of such Participating Customers. If medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances, we will be unable to increase the capitation fee received under these contracts during the then-current terms. Since we do not negotiate with CMS or any HMO regarding the benefits to be provided under their Medicare Advantage plans, we often have just a few months to familiarize ourselves with each new, annual package of benefits we are expected to offer. In addition, under most of our agreements with Contracting HMOs, the Contracting HMO is generally permitted to modify the benefit and risk obligations and compensation rights from time to time. If a Contracting HMO exercises its right to amend the benefit and risk obligations and compensation rights under one of our agreements, we generally are allowed a period of time to object to such amendment. If we object to such amendment, under some of our managed care agreements the relevant Contracting HMO may terminate the applicable agreement upon 60 to 90 days written notice. Aside from the foregoing, we have potentially limited opportunities to negotiate with an HMO regarding the scope of benefits we will be directly or indirectly responsible for providing and/or our compensation rights. If we enter into contracts with unfavorable economic terms, or a contract is amended to include unfavorable terms, we could suffer losses with respect to such contract through its termination date. Relatively small changes in our ratio of medical expense to revenue can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of revenue have fluctuated. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed estimates include: 29 ● the health status of our Participating Customers; ● higher than expected utilization of new or existing healthcare services or technologies; ● an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; ● changes to mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; ● periodic renegotiation of provider contracts with specialist physicians, hospitals and ancillary providers; ● periodic renegotiation of contracts with our affiliated primary care physicians; ● changes in the demographics of our Participating Customers and medical trends; ● contractual or claims disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers within a Contracting HMO’s network; and ● the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, or acts of terrorism. A Failure to Estimate Incurred But Not Reported Medical Benefits Expense Accurately Could Adversely Affect Our Profitability. Medical claims expense includes estimates of future medical claims that have been incurred by the customer but for which the provider has not yet billed us (“IBNR”). IBNR claim estimates are made utilizing actuarial methods and are continually evaluated and adjusted by management, based upon our historical claims experience and other factors. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to medical claims expense when the assumptions used to determine our IBNR claims liability changes and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. Due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the factors used in these estimates and changes in the patterns and rates of medical utilization, materially different amounts could be reported in our financial statements for a particular period under different conditions or using different, but still reasonable, assumptions. Although our past estimates of IBNR have typically been adequate, they may be inadequate in the future, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, the inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. We Face Certain Competitive Threats Which Could Reduce Our Profitability and Increase Competition for Participating Customers. We face certain competitive threats based on certain features of the Medicare programs, including the following: ● As a result of the direct and indirect impacts of the Reform Acts, many Participating Customers may decide that an original fee-for-service Medicare program is more attractive than a Medicare Advantage plan. As a result, enrollment in the plans we serve may decrease. ● Managed care companies offer alternative products such as regional PPOs and private fee-for-service plans. Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans allow their customers more flexibility in selecting physicians than Medicare Advantage HMOs, which typically require customers to coordinate care with a primary care physician. The Medicare Modernization Act has encouraged the creation of regional PPOs through various incentives, including certain risk corridors, or cost-reimbursement provisions, a stabilization fund for incentive payments, and special payments to hospitals not otherwise contracted with a Medicare Advantage plan that treat regional plan enrollees. The formation of regional Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans can affect our PSN’s relative attractiveness to existing and potential Medicare customers in their service areas. ● The payments for the local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may indirectly cause a decrease in the amount of the capitation fee paid to the PSN or result in an increase in the benefits offered by the Contracting HMO. 30 ● The annual enrollment process and subsequent “lock-in” provisions of the Reform Act may adversely affect our level of revenue growth as it will limit the ability of a Contracting HMO to market to and enroll new Participating Customers in its established service areas outside of the annual enrollment period. ● Commencing in 2012, CMS will allow Medicare beneficiaries who are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan with a quality rating of 4.5 stars or less to enroll in a 5 star rated Medicare Advantage plan at any time during the benefit year. None of the plans we serve are 5 star rated. Therefore, we and the Contracting HMOs may face a competitive disadvantage in recruiting and retaining customers. CMS’ Risk Adjustment Payment System Could Result in Material Retroactive Adjustments to Our Results of Operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish appropriate compensation for Medicare plans that enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS establishes premium payments to Medicare plans based on the plans’ approved bids at the beginning of the calendar year. Based on the customers’ known demographic and risk information, CMS then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis to take into account additional customer risk data. The first such adjustment updates the risk scores for the current year based on prior year’s dates of service. The second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. As a result of the variability of factors impacting risk scores, the actual amount of CMS’ retroactive adjustment could be materially more or less than our estimates. The change in this estimate may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare capitated fee revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. A Disruption in Our Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks could refuse to contract with us or a Contracting HMO, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our Participating Customers, or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some service areas, healthcare providers or provider networks may have significant market positions. If healthcare providers or provider networks refuse to contract with us or a Contracting HMO, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts, or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then the Contracting HMO’s ability to market products or for us to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of Participating Customers or higher healthcare costs. A Disruption in our Contracting HMOs’ Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. A significant portion of the PSN’s total medical expenses are payable to entities that are not directly contracted with the PSN. Although virtually all of such entities are approved service providers of the Contracting HMO, and although the PSN can provide each Contracting HMO input with respect to its service providers, the PSN does not control the process by which a Contracting HMO negotiates and/or contracts with service providers in the Contracting HMO’s Medicare Advantage network. We Depend on Each Contracting HMO to Provide Us with Crucial Information and Data. Each Contracting HMO provides a significant amount of information and services to the PSN, including revenue, claims and Participating Customer data and other information, including reports and calculations of costs of services provided and payments to be received by the PSN. The PSN does not own or control such systems and, accordingly, has limited ability to ensure that these systems are properly maintained, serviced and updated. In addition, information systems such as these may be vulnerable to failure, acts of sabotage and obsolescence. The PSN’s business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by its inability, for any reason, to receive timely and accurate information from a Contracting HMO. 31 Competition for Physician Practice Group Acquisitions and Other Factors May Impede Our Ability to Acquire Other Physician Practices and May Inhibit Our Growth. We anticipate that a portion of the future growth of our PSN may be accomplished through acquisitions of physician practices or other provider service networks with managed care contracts. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreements to acquire these companies, obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms and successfully integrate the operations of these businesses. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies that have similar growth strategies. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. This competition may prevent us from acquiring businesses that could improve our growth or expand our operations. Claims Relating to Medical Malpractice and Other Litigation Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, IPAs involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some of these IPAs do not have malpractice insurance. As a result of increased costs or inability to secure malpractice insurance, the percentage of physicians who do not have malpractice insurance may increase. Although most of its network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a PSN should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur substantial expense in defending these or future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories may significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. We maintain professional liability insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe is adequate based on industry standards. Nonetheless, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations or the amount of insurance coverage and/or related reserves may be inadequate. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Our Industry is Already Very Competitive; Increased Competition Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue; the PSN Competes with Other Service Providers for Business from HMOs. We compete in the highly competitive and regulated healthcare industry, which is subject to continuing changes with respect to the provision of services and the selection and compensation of providers. Approximately 96.9% of our revenue was directly or indirectly derived from premiums generated by Medicare Advantage health plans. In 2011, substantially all of our revenue was earned through contracts with the Contracting HMOs. These organizations compete with other health plans, as well as with each other, in securing and serving customers in the Medicare Advantage Program. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources comparable to or greater than these HMOs, can be their competitors. The market in Florida has become increasingly attractive to health plans that may compete with these organizations and they may not be able to continue to compete profitably in the healthcare industry if additional competitors enter the same market. The PSN competes with other service providers for the business of each of the Contracting HMOs. Failure to maintain favorable contract terms with the Contracting HMOs would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Competitors of our PSN vary in size and scope and in terms of products and services offered. Our PSN competes directly with various regional and local companies that provide similar services. Some of the PSN’s direct competitors are MCCI, JSA Healthcare Corporation, and Island Doctors, all based or operating in Florida. Additionally, companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than ours, may become competitors in providing similar services at any given time. The market in Florida has become increasingly attractive to competitors of the PSN due to the large population of Medicare participants. We and our Contracting HMOs may not be able to continue to compete effectively in the healthcare industry if additional competitors enter the same markets. 32 We believe that many of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger than our PSN and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, it is our belief that some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves. We are Dependent upon Certain Executive Officers and Key Management Personnel for Our Future Success. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of certain of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and plans for future development. While we have a retention plan and employment contracts with certain executive officers and key management personnel, there can be no assurance that these persons will continue their employment with us. We compete with other companies in the industry for executive talent and there can be no assurance that highly qualified executives would be readily and easily available without delay, given the limited number of individuals in the industry with expertise particular to our business operations. Our Business Activities Are Highly Regulated and New and Proposed Government Regulation or Legislative Reforms Could Increase Our Cost of Doing Business and Reduce Our Customer Base, Profitability, and Liquidity. Our business is subject to substantial federal and state regulation. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our contracts and licenses, directly or indirectly regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our Participating Customers, providers, and the public. Healthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: ● reducing the capitation payments we receive; ● imposing additional license, registration, or capital reserve requirements; ● increasing our administrative and other costs; ● forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; ● increasing mandated benefits without corresponding capitation fee increases; ● increasing the number and type of healthcare providers and organizations with which we compete for business; ● limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; ● forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; or ● requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. It is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicare and Medicaid programs and to continue to serve and attract new Participating Customers. The Healthcare Industry is Highly Regulated. Our or any of the Contracting HMOs’ Failure to Comply with Laws or Regulations, or a Determination that in the Past We Had Failed to Comply with Laws or Regulations, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The healthcare services that we and our affiliated professionals, including the PSN physicians, provide are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various matters such as the licensing and certification of our facilities and personnel, the conduct of our operations, billing and coding policies and practices, policies and practices with regard to patient privacy and confidentiality, and prohibitions on payments for the referral of business and physician self-referrals. These laws and regulations generally aimed at protecting patients and federal healthcare programs, and the agencies charged with the administration of these laws and regulations have broad authority to enforce them. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation” for a discussion of the various federal government and state laws and regulations to which we are subject. 33 The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits, and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses, and applicable laws and regulations. These reviews, audits and investigations can be time consuming and costly. An adverse review, audit, or investigation could result in one or more of the following: ● loss of the PSN’s right to directly or indirectly participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs; ● loss of one or more of the PSN’s licenses to act as a service provider or third party administrator or to otherwise provide or bill for a service; ● forfeiture or recoupment of amounts the PSN has been paid pursuant to its contracts; ● imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines, or other sanctions on us and/or our affiliated professionals and employees, including the PSN physicians; ● damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; ● increased restrictions on marketing of the PSN’s services; and ● inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions, or acquisitions. Each Contracting HMO is also subject to substantial federal and state government regulation as well as governmental reviews, audits and investigations. Their failure to comply with applicable regulations and/or maintain its licensure and rights to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs would have a materially adverse effect on our business. We Are Required to Comply with Laws Governing the Transmission, Security and Privacy of Health Information That Require Significant Compliance Costs, and Any Failure to Comply with These Laws Could Result in Material Criminal and Civil Penalties. Regulations under HIPAA require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, designated “business associates” and customers. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. HIPAA also provides that to the extent state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, the stricter state law requirements are not preempted by HIPAA. However, HIPAA generally does preempt more lenient state law requirements. In 2009, as part of the ARRA, the federal government passed HITECH, which along with its implementing regulations has amended and supplemented HIPAA. HITECH, in part, provides for enhanced enforcement of HIPAA, imposes data breach notification requirements for unauthorized uses and disclosures of unsecured Protected Health Information, limits the use of PHI for marketing, limits the sale of PHI and applies certain HIPAA provisions directly to business associates (i.e., business associates may now be held directly liable for violations of HIPAA rather than simply being held in breach of a contractual arrangement with a covered entity). We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change and that HHS has not yet promulgated some regulations mandated by HITECH, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and, at times, conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with applicable HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Furthermore, a state’s ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance more difficult. To the extent that we submit electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that do not comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, payments may be delayed or denied. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. In addition, failure to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA could result in additional penalties. 34 Our Exploration of Various Forms of Business Proposals Could be Disruptive to Our Business and We May Never Recover Our Investment in Such Efforts. From time to time we explore various business proposals that we believe have the promise of resulting in a transaction or relationship that could be beneficial to us. Such proposals may relate to new service areas, new businesses, new services and/or strategic alternatives. Such perceived opportunities may be presented to us by third parties without solicitation and, in other instances, we may take certain actions to generate and/or gauge an expression of interest or an offer. The exploration of such proposals is an inherently uncertain process, not uniquely within our control and subject to unpredictable developments and set-backs. We may incur substantial expenses and consume considerable management and employee time exploring whether or not to even conditionally advance one or more business proposals. The diversion of our management's and employees’ attention can be disruptive to our ongoing business. Although our Board of Directors can commit to act in our best interest when making and/or evaluating any communications regarding business proposals, we cannot assure you that any series of conversations, expressions of interest or offers will ever result in an offer that is deemed to be in our best interest by our Board of Directors and/or shareholders, which may be asked to pass upon an offer in certain circumstances. Accordingly, we are also subject to the risk that we may never recoup the investment of money and/or management time that we devote to business proposals. We have Anti-Takeover Provisions Which May Make it Difficult to Acquire Us or Replace or Remove Current Management. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may delay or prevent our acquisition, a change in our management or similar change in control transaction, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current prices or that shareholders may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the Board of Directors. Because the Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of the management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our shareholders to replace the current members of the management team. These provisions provide, among other things, that: ● any shareholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of shareholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; ● the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors; and ● the Board of Directors has the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, without shareholder approval. Our Quarterly Results Will Likely Fluctuate, Which Could Impact the Value of Our Common Stock. We are subject to quarterly variations in revenue and medical expenses due to, among other things, our ever evolving estimates of reimbursement rates and incurred but not reported medical expenses, as well as fluctuations in customer utilization. For example, our estimates of reimbursement rates are often materially impacted when CMS retroactively adjusts reimbursement rates and we generally experience a greater use of medical services in some months than others. Accordingly, our results of operations fluctuate from period to period and our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year, which could impact the value of our Common Stock. 35 The Market Price of Our Common Stock Could Fall as a Result of Sales of Shares of Common Stock in the Market or the Price Could Remain Lower because of the Perception that Such Sales May Occur. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or the possibility of future sales may have on the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 43.8 million shares of our Common Stock outstanding, all of which are freely tradable without restriction or tradable in accordance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act, with the exception of approximately 1.3 million shares owned by certain of our officers, directors and affiliates which may be sold publicly at any time subject to the volume and other restrictions promulgated pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act and subject to legal restrictions such as insider trading laws. There are approximately 1.1 million restricted shares of our Common Stock owned by certain of our employees and directors at December 31, 2011 that are subject to forfeiture until vested in accordance with their terms. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 4.1 million shares of our Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options which were previously granted and 301,000 shares of our Common Stock were reserved for future issuance upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock or the perception that such sales could occur could adversely affect prevailing market prices, which could impair our ability to raise funds through future sales of Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock could fluctuate significantly and unexpectedly as a result of a number of factors, including factors beyond our control and unrelated to our business. Some of the factors related to our business include termination of our agreements with the Contracting HMOs, announcements relating to our business or that of our competitors, adverse publicity concerning organizations in our industry, changes in state or federal legislation and programs, general conditions affecting the industry, performance of companies comparable to us, and changes in the expectations of analysts with the respect to our future financial performance. Additionally, our Common Stock may be affected by general economic conditions or specific occurrences such as epidemics (such as influenza), natural disasters (including hurricanes), and acts of war or terrorism. Because of the limited trading market for our Common Stock, and because of the possible price volatility, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock when they desire to do so. The inability to sell shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase our shareholders’ risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our Common Stock may suffer greater declines because of our price volatility. Delisting of Our Common Stock from New York Stock Exchange Would Adversely Affect Us and Our Shareholders. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. To maintain listing of securities, the New York Stock Exchange requires satisfaction of certain maintenance criteria that we may not be able to continue to be able to satisfy. If we are unable to satisfy such maintenance criteria in the future and we fail to comply, our Common Stock may be delisted from trading on New York Stock Exchange. If our Common Stock is delisted from trading on New York Stock Exchange, then trading, if any, might thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or on the "Electronic Bulletin Board" of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and consequently an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our Common Stock. We May Be Required to Record Additional Impairment Related to Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Our balance sheet includes intangible assets, including goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets, of approximately $364.9 million, which represented 77.7% of our total assets at December 31, 2011. The most significant component of the intangible assets consists of the intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Continucare. The purchase price for Continucare, excluding acquisition costs, of approximately $415.9 million was allocated to the estimated fair value of acquired tangible assets of $102.6 million, identifiable intangible assets of $105.0 million and assumed liabilities of $52.1 million, resulting in goodwill totaling $260.4 million. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. We review such assets for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if certain indicators of impairment arise. We amortize intangible assets with definite useful lives over their respective useful lives to their estimated residual values and also review for impairment annually or more frequently if certain indicators of impairment arise. Indicators of impairment include, among other things, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate, the loss of a key HMO contract, an adverse action by a regulator, unanticipated competition, and the loss of key personnel or allocation of goodwill to a portion of business that is to be sold. The goodwill impairment test requires the allocation of goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to reporting units. 36 We have two reporting units: the PSN and the sleep diagnostic business. Our goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, or book value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The annual impairment review performed as of December 31, 2011, resulted in goodwill impairment in the sleep diagnostic business of $3.5 million. Future evaluations may require further impairment allowances to our goodwill and other long-lived assets, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Locate a Suitable Purchaser for the Sleep Diagnostic Business and Any Sale of Such Business is Subject to Significant Risks. Since the acquisition of Continucare, we’ve operated a sleep diagnostic business which operates and manages over 70 sleep diagnostic centers in 15 states. On February 27, 2012, the Board of Directors approved a plan to sell the sleep diagnostic business. While we have retained an investment banking firm to assist us with the sale of the sleep diagnostic business, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in finding suitable purchasers. Even if we are able to find suitable purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sale, including attractive pricing. Furthermore, at December 31, 2011, included in income before income taxes is a $3.5 million impairment charge, representing the difference between the carrying values of the assets being sold, including goodwill, the liabilities to be assumed and the estimated sales price of the business. We may not be able to sell the sleep business at the carrying value of the assets being sold, which could result in our recognition of further impairment losses. Divestitures of businesses involve a number of risks, including among other things the diversion of management and employee attention and significant costs and expenses. In addition, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, which could involve the expenditure of significant financial and employee resources. Inability to consummate a sale of the sleep diagnostic business or to manage the post-separation transition arrangements could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 37 