Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we publish forward-looking statements, as disclosed in our Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, beginning immediately following the Table of Contents of this Annual Report. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are risks and uncertainties that may arise and that may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. Our inability to redesign, restyle and extend our existing core products and product lines as consumer preferences evolve, and to develop, introduce and gain customer acceptance of new products and product lines, may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our products. Our continued success in the toy industry will depend upon our ability to redesign, restyle and extend our existing core products and product lines as consumer preferences evolve, and to develop, introduce and gain customer acceptance of new products and product lines. Several trends in recent years have presented challenges for the toy industry, including: ● the phenomenon of children outgrowing toys at younger ages, particularly in favor of interactive and high technology products; ● increasing use of technology; ● shorter life cycles for individual products; and ● higher consumer expectations for product quality, functionality and value. We cannot assure you that: ● our current products will continue to be popular with consumers; ● the product lines or products that we introduce will achieve any significant degree of market acceptance; or ● the life cycles of our products will be sufficient to permit us to recover licensing, design, manufacturing, marketing and other costs associated with those products Our failure to achieve any or all of the foregoing benchmarks may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our character-related and theme-related products to become and/or remain popular with children may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of many of our character-related and theme-related products depends upon the popularity of characters in movies, television programs, live sporting exhibitions, and other media and events. We cannot assure you that: ● media associated with our character-related and theme-related product lines will be released at the times we expect or will be successful; ● the success of media associated with our existing character-related and theme-related product lines will result in substantial promotional value to our products; ● we will be successful in renewing licenses upon expiration on terms that are favorable to us; or ● we will be successful in obtaining licenses to produce new character-related and theme-related products in the future. Our failure to achieve any or all of the foregoing benchmarks may cause the infrastructure of our operations to fail, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 There are risks associated with our license agreements. ● Our current licenses require us to pay minimum royalties Sales of products under trademarks or trade or brand names licensed from others account for substantially all of our net sales. Product licenses allow us to capitalize on characters, designs, concepts and inventions owned by others or developed by toy inventors and designers. Our license agreements generally require us to make specified minimum royalty payments, even if we fail to sell a sufficient number of units to cover these amounts. In addition, under certain of our license agreements, if we fail to achieve certain prescribed sales targets, we may be unable to retain or renew these licenses. ● Some of our licenses are restricted as to use Under the majority of our license agreements, the licensors have the right to review and approve our use of their licensed products, designs or materials before we may make any sales. If a licensor refuses to permit our use of any licensed property in the way we propose, or if their review process is delayed, our development or sale of new products could be impeded. ● New licenses are difficult and expensive to obtain Our continued success will substantially depend upon our ability to obtain additional licenses. Intense competition exists for desirable licenses in our industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure or renew significant licenses on terms acceptable to us. In addition, as we add licenses, the need to fund additional royalty advances and guaranteed minimum royalty payments may strain our cash resources. ● A limited number of licensors account for a large portion of our net sales We derive a significant portion of our net sales from a limited number of licensors. If one or more of these licensors were to terminate or fail to renew our license or not grant us new licenses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The toy industry is highly competitive and our inability to compete effectively may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The toy industry is highly competitive. Globally, certain of our competitors have financial and strategic advantages over us, including: ● greater financial resources; ● larger sales, marketing and product development departments; ● stronger name recognition; ● longer operating histories; and ● greater economies of scale. In addition, the toy industry has no significant barriers to entry. Competition is based primarily upon the ability to design and develop new toys, procure licenses for popular characters and trademarks and successfully market products. Many of our competitors offer similar products or alternatives to our products. Our competitors have obtained and are likely to continue to obtain licenses that overlap our licenses with respect to products, geographic areas and markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate shelf space in retail stores to support our existing products, expand our products and product lines or continue to compete effectively against current and future competitors. 12 We may not be able to sustain or manage our growth, which may prevent us from increasing our net revenues. We have experienced rapid growth in our product lines which was achieved through acquisitions of businesses, products and licenses. This growth in product lines has contributed significantly to our total revenues over the last few years. For example, revenues associated with companies we acquired since 2008 were approximately $218.5 million and $282.6 million, in 2011 and 2012, respectively, representing 32.2% and 42.4%, respectively, of our total revenues for those periods. As a result, comparing our period-to-period operating results may not be meaningful and results of operations from prior periods may not be indicative of future results. We cannot assure you that we will continue to experience growth in, or maintain our present level of, net sales. Our growth strategy calls for us to continuously develop and diversify our toy business by acquiring other companies, entering into additional license agreements, refining our product lines and expanding into international markets, which will place additional demands upon our management, operational capacity and financial resources and systems. The increased demand upon management may necessitate our recruitment and retention of qualified management personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel or expand and manage our operations effectively and profitably. To effectively manage future growth, we must continue to expand our operational, financial and management information systems and to train, motivate and manage our work force. There can be no assurance that our operational, financial and management information systems will be adequate to support our future operations. Failure to expand our operational, financial and management information systems or to train, motivate or manage employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, implementation of our growth strategy is subject to risks beyond our control, including competition, market acceptance of new products, changes in economic conditions, our ability to obtain or renew licenses on commercially reasonable terms and our ability to finance increased levels of accounts receivable and inventory necessary to support our sales growth, if any. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our growth strategy will be successful. If we are unable to acquire and integrate companies and new product lines successfully, we will be unable to implement a significant component of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to acquire companies and new product lines. Future acquisitions, if any, may succeed only if we can effectively assess characteristics of potential target companies and product lines, such as: ● attractiveness of products; ● suitability of distribution channels; ● management ability; ● financial condition and results of operations; and ● the degree to which acquired operations can be integrated with our operations. We cannot assure you that we can identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to sustain growth. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, each of which could adversely affect our operating results, including: ● difficulties in integrating acquired businesses or product lines, assimilating new facilities and personnel and harmonizing diverse business strategies and methods of operation; ● diversion of management attention from operation of our existing business; ● loss of key personnel from acquired companies; and ● failure of an acquired business to achieve targeted financial results. 13 A limited number of customers account for a large portion of our net sales, so that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our three largest customers accounted for 46.8% of our net sales in 2012. Except for outstanding purchase orders for specific products, we do not have written contracts with or commitments from any of our customers and pursuant to the terms of certain of our vendor agreements, even some purchase orders may be cancelled without penalty up until delivery. A substantial reduction in or termination of orders from any of our largest customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, pressure by large customers seeking price reductions, financial incentives, changes in other terms of sale or for us to bear the risks and the cost of carrying inventory could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retailers could negatively impact our revenues and bad debt expense. We depend upon our Chief Executive Officer and any loss or interruption of his services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success has been largely dependent upon the experience and continued services of Stephen G. Berman, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement for Mr. Berman should the need arise, and any loss or interruption of the services of Mr. Berman could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon third-party manufacturers, and if our relationship with any of them is harmed or if they independently encounter difficulties in their manufacturing processes, we could experience product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon many third-party manufacturers who develop, provide and use the tools, dyes and molds that we generally own to manufacture our products. However, we have limited control over the manufacturing processes themselves. As a result, any difficulties encountered by the third-party manufacturers that result in product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with our third-party manufacturers. Although we believe we could secure other third-party manufacturers to produce our products, our operations would be adversely affected if we lost our relationship with any of our current suppliers or if our current suppliers’ operations or sea or air transportation with our overseas manufacturers were disrupted or terminated even for a relatively short period of time. Our tools, dyes and molds are located at the facilities of our third-party manufacturers. Although we do not purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products, we are potentially subject to variations in the prices we pay our third-party manufacturers for products, depending upon what they pay for their raw materials. We have substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside of the United States, subjecting us to risks common to international operations. We sell products and operate facilities in numerous countries outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales to our international customers comprised approximately 19.8% of our net sales. We expect our sales to international customers to account for a greater portion of our revenues in future fiscal periods. Additionally, we utilize third-party manufacturers, located principally in China, and are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations, including: ● currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; ● limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; ● political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; 14 ● greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; ● complications in complying with laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; ● greater difficulty and expenses associated with recovering from natural disasters; ● transportation delays and interruptions; ● the potential imposition of tariffs; and ● the pricing of intercompany transactions may be challenged by taxing authorities in both Hong Kong and the United States, with potential increases in income taxes. Our reliance upon external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary. However, if we were prevented from obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to medical, political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted while alternative sources of products were secured. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions by the United States against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status by, China could significantly increase our cost of products imported from that nation. Because of the importance of international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected if any of the risks described above were to occur. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and any violation by us of such regulations could result in product liability claims, loss of sales, diversion of resources, damage to our reputation, increased warranty costs or removal of our products from the market, and we cannot assure you that our product liability insurance for the foregoing will be sufficient. Our business is subject to various laws, including the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under these acts. These statutes are administered by the CPSC, which has the authority to remove from the market products that are found to be defective and present a substantial hazard or risk of serious injury or death. The CPSC can require a manufacturer to recall, repair or replace these products under certain circumstances. We cannot assure you that defects in our products will not be alleged or found. Any such allegations or findings could result in: ● product liability claims; ● loss of sales; ● diversion of resources; ● damage to our reputation; ● increased warranty costs; and ● removal of our products from the market. Any of these results may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to avoid or limit our loss in the event of an adverse outcome of any product liability claim. We depend upon our proprietary rights and our inability to safeguard and maintain the same, or claims of third parties that we have violated their intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary rights in our products. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that we or our licensors will be able to successfully safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Further, certain parties have commenced legal proceedings or made claims against us based upon our alleged patent infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets or other violations of their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that other parties will not assert intellectual property claims against us in the future. These claims could divert our attention from operating our business or result in unanticipated legal and other costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Market conditions and other third-party conduct could negatively impact our margins and implementation of other business initiatives. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and decreased consumer confidence, may adversely impact our margins. In addition, general economic conditions were significantly and negatively affected by the September 11th terrorist attacks and could be similarly affected by any future attacks. Such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Other conditions, such as the unavailability of electronics components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. Significant and sustained increases in the price of oil could adversely impact the cost of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products, such as plastic. We may not have the funds necessary to purchase our outstanding convertible senior notes upon a fundamental change or other purchase date, as required by the indenture governing the notes. On November 10, 2009, we sold an aggregate of $100.0 million of 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of JAKKS, will pay interest semi-annually at a rate of 4.50% per annum and will mature on November 1, 2014. Prior to August 1, 2014, holders of the Notes may convert their Notes only upon specified events. Upon conversion, the Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or some of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Notes). We have a history of making acquisitions that result in material amounts of goodwill. Any future acquisitions may also result in material amounts of goodwill which, if impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. Current accounting standards require that goodwill not be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based upon the fair value of the reporting unit. Goodwill currently on our books and any goodwill associated with future acquisitions are subject to the same impairment risk. We have a full valuation allowance on the entire balance of deferred taxes on our books since their future realization is uncertain. Deferred tax assets are realized by prior and future taxable income of appropriate character. Current accounting standards require that a valuation allowance be recorded if it is not likely that sufficient taxable income of appropriate character will be generated in the U.S. to realize the deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we recognized an impairment of our deferred tax assets, resulting in a non-cash charge to income of $91.7 million. While we currently have no remaining deferred tax assets on our books, any future deferred tax assets are subject to the same impairment risk. 