ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE HARMED. ANY OF THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW COULD RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT OR MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND A CORRESPONDING DECLINE IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. THE RISKS DISCUSSED BELOW ALSO INCLUDE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND OUR ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SUBSTANTIALLY FROM THOSE DISCUSSED IN THOSE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. PLEASE REFER TO THE DISCUSSION UNDER THE HEADING "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS" IN ITEM 1. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COLLECT ON OUR REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers a portion of insurance risk under policies it has written to another insurance company, called the reinsurer, and pays the reinsurer a portion of the premiums relating to those policies. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Although we purchase reinsurance to manage our risk and exposure to losses, we continue to have direct obligations under the policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders, even if we are unable to recover what we believe we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. Reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them, or they might delay payment. In the case of long-term workers' compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. Recent natural disasters, such as Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, have caused unprecedented insured property losses, a significant portion of which will be borne by reinsurers. If a reinsurer is active both in this market and in the workers' compensation insurance market, its ability to perform its obligations in the latter market may be adversely affected by events unrelated to workers' compensation insurance losses. In 2001, we wrote off $10.8 million of uncollectible reinsurance receivables from Reliance Insurance Company and Legion Insurance Company. In addition, the liquidator for Reliance has filed an action against us seeking recovery of approximately $2.3 million of reinsurance recoverables paid to us by Reliance as preferential payments in the ordinary course of business prior to the entry of an order to liquidate Reliance. While we are vigorously defending such action, we cannot assure the outcome of such action. At December 31, 2006, we carried a total of $75.4 million of reinsurance recoverables for paid and unpaid losses and LAE and ceding commissions, representing 54.1% of our total stockholders' equity as of that date. Under Florida law, each of our insurance subsidiaries is required to maintain a ratio of 1.25 times premiums written to surplus of no greater than 10-to-1 for gross premiums written and no greater than 4-to-1 for net premiums written. If all reinsurance recoverables became uncollectible, our surplus would decline by this amount, and we would not be in compliance with Florida's statutory requirement at our current level of premiums written. The Florida OIR would have the authority to place us into receivership, to suspend our insurance subsidiaries' certificates of authority or to set limits on our maximum annual gross or net premiums written in all states. In addition, we may be unable to comply with certain regulatory requirements, including solvency standards that may subject us to additional restrictions on our operations. Of the $75.4 million in reinsurance recoverables, $3.1 million is the current recoverable on paid losses and $72.3 million is recoverable on unpaid losses and therefore not currently due. The reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses will become current as we pay the related claims. If we are unable to collect a significant amount of our reinsurance recoverables, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. See "Business--Recoverability of Reinsurance" and "--Regulation." Our largest recoverable from a single reinsurer as of December 31, 2006 was $39.1 million owed to us by Continental Casualty Company, a subsidiary of CNA Financial Corporation, representing 28.1% of our total stockholders' equity as of that date. Of the $39.1 million, $1.6 million was the current recoverable on paid losses. The balance of $37.5 million is recoverable from Continental Casualty Company on losses that may be paid by us in the future and therefore is not currently due. We also have a net outstanding and past due claims receivable for reinsurance recoveries in the amount of approximately $1.8 million under reinsurance agreements assumed from 1998 through 2000, with Security Insurance Company of Hartford, Fire and Casualty Insurance Company of Connecticut and Connecticut Indemnity Company. These amounts have become past due because of Security Insurance Company's contract disputes with its reinsurer. If these amounts are ultimately determined to be uncollectible from Security Insurance Company, we will write off that amount. 24 OUR LOSS RESERVES ARE BASED ON ESTIMATES AND MAY BE INADEQUATE TO COVER OUR ACTUAL LOSSES. We must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for losses and LAE. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims based on actuarial estimation techniques and are inherently uncertain. Judgment is required in applying actuarial techniques to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim closure patterns under current facts and circumstances. We review our established reserves each quarter. We may adjust our reserves based on the results of these reviews and these adjustments could be significant. If we change our estimates, these changes are reflected in our results of operations during the period in which they are made. In states other than Florida, we have a shorter operating history and must rely on a combination of industry benchmarks, our specific experience in these states and our experience in Florida. Operational changes in claims handling practices over the years may impact the interpretation of this historical data, which can also be impacted by external forces such as legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. A key assumption in the estimation process for workers' compensation reserves is severity trends, including the increasing costs of health care and the medical claims process. If there were unfavorable changes in severity trends, our loss reserves might need to be increased, which would result in a charge to our earnings. In 2006 and 2005, we experienced redundancies in our reserves for prior periods of $14.2 million and $24.7 million, respectively. Our loss reserve estimates are made primarily by reviewing our current pricing and state specific loss reserving patterns from the past. We review our loss information and adjust our expected loss reserving patterns on a state specific basis three times a year. During 2006, we observed that enough loss reserving history had occurred to select loss development factors based entirely on state specific information. While the selected development factors changed significantly for some states, many of the changes were offsetting. The overall effect for the company was to slightly increase loss development factors affecting only the 2006 accident year. Our reserves may not develop as favorably in the future as the have in recent periods. Workers' compensation claims are often paid over a long period of time. Estimating reserves for these claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other lines of insurance with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the ultimate loss. Accordingly, there is a greater risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and that our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. IF WE DO NOT EFFECTIVELY PRICE OUR INSURANCE POLICIES, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED; WE DO NOT SET PRICES FOR OUR POLICIES IN FLORIDA AND WISCONSIN. Our policy prices are established when coverage is initiated. Our prices for insurance coverage are based on estimates of expected losses generated from the policies we underwrite. As do most workers' compensation insurance carriers, we analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder's prior loss history and industry, and the loss prevention orientation of the policyholder's management. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder's past claims experience puts us at risk for mispricing our policies. When initiating coverage on a policyholder, we must rely on the claims information provided by the policyholder or previous carriers to properly estimate future claims expense. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may underprice our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. We write insurance policies in two "administered pricing" states, Florida and Wisconsin. In 2006, we wrote 37.7% of our direct written premiums in Florida and 12.9% in Wisconsin. In administered pricing states, insurance rates are set by the state insurance regulators and are adjusted periodically. Rate competition generally is not permitted in these states. On October 24, 2006, NCCI submitted an amended filing calling for a statewide decrease of 15.7%, which was approved by the Florida OIR on October 31, 2006. Significant declines in claim frequency and an improvement in loss development in Florida since the legislature enacted the 2003 reforms are the two main reasons for the proposed premium level decrease. The new rates apply to all new and renewal policies as of January 1, 2007. The effect of the approved decrease cannot currently be ascertained. If the 2007 premium decrease had been in effect in 2006, our direct premiums written would have declined by $15.8 million, our Florida net loss ratio would have increased by 3.8% and our company-wide net loss ratio would have increased by 2.1%. If the approved rate decrease results in a material adverse effect on our profitability in Florida, 25 we may elect to reduce the amount of premiums written there. In states in which we operate, other than administered pricing states, should our competitors offer products at prices lower than we believe would be profitable, we may decline to compete at those lower prices and our premium levels could be reduced. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY AND MAY LACK THE FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. The market for workers' compensation insurance products is highly competitive. Competition in our business is based on many factors, including premiums charged, policyholder dividends, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payments, reputation, perceived financial strength and general experience. In some cases, our competitors offer lower priced products than we do. If our competitors offer more competitive premiums, dividends or payment plans, services or commissions to independent agencies, we could lose market share or have to reduce our premium rates, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our competitors include insurance companies, professional employer organizations, third party administrators, self-insurance funds and state insurance pools. Our main competitors in each of the 15 states in which we operate vary from state to state but are usually those companies that offer a full range of services in underwriting, loss prevention and claims. We compete on the services that we offer to our policyholders and on ease of doing business rather than solely on price. In Florida, our main competitor is Summit Holdings Southeast, Inc./Bridgefield Employers Insurance Company, a full service company that provides comparable services to employers. Another Florida competitor, FCCI Commercial Insurance Company, also provides these services to policyholders in the $10,000 to $100,000 premium range, our target market. In Texas, our main competitor is Texas Mutual Insurance Company, a company also not rated by A.M. Best, which sells to all sized policyholders, including policyholders in the $10,000 to $100,000 range. In Wisconsin, there are over 300 companies that write workers' compensation insurance. Our primary competitors there include Acuity, a Mutual Insurance Company, United Heartland Life Inc., State Fund Mutual Insurance Company, West Bend Mutual Insurance Company, General Casualty Company of Wisconsin and Sentry Insurance Group, because they offer the same types of services that we offer. In Indiana, our principal competition is from Accident Fund, Amerisure Insurance Company and Indiana Insurance Company. In Tennessee, our main competition comes from Acuity, Accident Fund Insurance Company of America, Bridgefield and Hartford Insurance Group. Many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. State insurance regulations require maintenance of minimum levels of surplus and of ratios of net premiums written to surplus. Accordingly, competitors with more surplus than we possess have the potential to expand in our markets more quickly than we can. Additionally, greater financial resources permit a carrier to gain market share through more competitive pricing, even if that pricing results in reduced underwriting margins or an underwriting loss. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers' compensation insurance that they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. IF WE DO NOT MAINTAIN GOOD RELATIONSHIPS WITH INDEPENDENT INSURANCE AGENCIES, THEY MAY NOT SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN PREFERENCE TO THOSE OF OUR COMPETITORS AND OUR REVENUES MAY DECLINE. We market and sell our insurance products solely through independent, non-exclusive insurance agencies. These agencies are not obligated to promote our products and can and do sell our competitors' products. We must offer workers' compensation insurance products that meet the requirements of these agencies and their customers. We must provide competitive compensation to these agencies. Our business model is based on an extensive network of smaller agencies distributed throughout the states in which we do business. We need to maintain good relationships with the agencies with which we contract to sell our products. If we do not, these agencies may sell our competitors' products instead of ours or may direct less desirable risks to us, and our revenues or profitability may decline. In addition, these agencies may find it easier to promote the broader range of programs of our competitors than to promote our niche selection of insurance products. A loss of a number of our independent agencies or the failure of these agencies to successfully market our products may reduce our revenues and our results of operations if we are unable to replace them with agencies that produce comparable premiums. INSURANCE RATINGS MAY BECOME IMPORTANT TO OUR AGENTS AND POLICYHOLDERS AND AN ADVERSE RATING COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. 26 Insurance ratings may become an increasingly important factor in establishing our competitive position. Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on their financial strength and their ability to pay claims, factors that are relevant to agents and policyholders. The ratings assigned by nationally recognized, independent rating agencies, particularly A.M. Best, may become material to our ability to maintain and expand our business. Ratings from A.M. Best and other rating agencies are used by some insurance buyers, agents and brokers as an indicator of financial strength and security. These ratings are not intended to reflect the quality of the rated company for investment purposes and are not recommendations to buy or hold securities. The financial strength ratings of A.M. Best and other rating agencies are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Other companies in our industry that have been rated and have had their rating downgraded have experienced negative effects. Our insurance subsidiaries have never been rated by A.M. Best. Since 1982, AmCOMP and its predecessors have been a mono-line workers' compensation insurance carrier specializing in smaller sized policyholders, principally employers with premium between $10,000 and $100,000 per year. Based on our extensive experience with independent agents, we believe employers in this size category are not as sensitive to A.M. Best ratings and they place more importance on a workers' compensation carrier's ability to assist in the prevention of injuries at their job site. To date, we have not pursued a rating because we have been able to successfully increase premiums written without a rating in the 15 states in which we operate. Some companies require that their workers' compensation insurance carrier have a rating of at least "A-" from A.M. Best. Most of these companies are larger than companies in our target market, and generally do not meet our underwriting and pricing objectives. Historically, when we have sought to write policies for these companies, we have been successful in many cases in having this requirement waived. However, we may not be able to obtain these waivers in the future and, should we decide to expand our target market, the absence of an A.M. Best rating or an unfavorable rating may limit our ability to profitably expand our business. One of our insurance subsidiaries, AmCOMP Preferred, is rated "BBpi" by Standard & Poor's on an unsolicited basis. A rating of "BB" is the 5th highest of 8 rating levels used by Standard & Poor's and indicates marginal financial security characteristics, although positive attributes exist, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Our insurance subsidiaries, AmCOMP Preferred and AmCOMP Assurance, are also rated "BBq" by Fitch Ratings on an unsolicited basis. A rating of "BBq" is the 5th highest of 7 Q-IFS rating levels used by Fitch and indicates that the insurer has an uncertain capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations and that, although positive factors are present, overall risk factors are high and the impact of adverse business and economic factors is expected to be significant. These ratings are based solely on an analysis of published financial information and additional information in the public domain. They are not based on meetings with our management, nor do they incorporate material, non-public information, and are therefore based on less comprehensive information than ratings without a "pi" or "q" subscript. The absence of a rating from A.M. Best and the current ratings by Standard & Poor's and Fitch may adversely affect our marketing efforts, cost or availability of reinsurance and financial performance. Should our insurance subsidiaries apply for a rating or should A.M. Best choose to rate our insurance subsidiaries on an unsolicited basis, the ratings they receive may not be favorable, which could adversely affect our marketing efforts, cost or availability of reinsurance and financial performance. Additionally, a downgrade in or withdrawal of any future A.M. Best or other rating agency rating could cause a reduction in the number of policies we write and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. OUR GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION TIES OUR PERFORMANCE TO BUSINESS, ECONOMIC AND REGULATORY CONDITIONS IN CERTAIN STATES. Our business is currently concentrated in Florida (37.7% of 2006 direct premiums written), Wisconsin (12.9% of 2006 direct premiums written), Texas (11.3% of 2006 direct premiums written), Indiana (9.8% of 2006 direct premiums written) and Tennessee (6.0% of 2006 direct premiums written). Unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in these states could impact our business disproportionately in comparison to insurers with less geographic concentration. In Florida, the state in which we write the most premium, and in Wisconsin, insurance regulators set the premium rates we may charge. The Florida and Wisconsin insurance regulators may set rates below those that we require to maintain profitability. For example, in October 2006, the Florida OIR approved an overall average 15.7% decrease in premium rates for all workers' compensation insurance policies written by Florida licensed insurers in 2007. The effect of the approved decrease cannot be ascertained at this time, because of anticipated changes in the number of insurers that will operate in Florida and the amount of insurance that they seek to write, the use of dividend plans and consent to rate policies and possible additional realization of cost savings resulting from reforms enacted in 2003. 27 In addition, Florida is exposed to severe natural perils, such as hurricanes. As our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risks from natural perils that are greater than the risks we would face if our business were spread more evenly by state. To date we have not been adversely affected by natural perils. However, were Florida to experience a natural peril of the magnitude of Hurricane Katrina, the result could be disruption of the entire local economy, the loss of jobs and a concomitant reduction in the opportunity to place workers' compensation insurance. OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REALIZE OUR INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES. Investment income is an important component of our revenues and net income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by factors that are beyond our control. For example, United States participation in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism may adversely affect the economy generally, and our investment income could decrease due to decreases in the yield on our investments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of the securities we own. Interest rates have remained low in the past several years. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates, maturity schedules and the amount of cash flows from operations that is available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity investments that are "available-for-sale" fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in our balance sheet. Our stockholders' equity will continue to fluctuate with any future changes in interest rates. Any significant decline in our investment income as a result of falling interest rates or general market conditions would have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our stockholders' equity and our policyholders' surplus. OUR BUSINESS IS LARGELY DEPENDENT ON THE EFFORTS OF OUR MANAGEMENT BECAUSE OF ITS INDUSTRY EXPERTISE, KNOWLEDGE OF OUR MARKETS AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE INDEPENDENT AGENCIES THAT SELL OUR PRODUCTS. Our success will depend in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting personnel and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. The current success of our business is dependent in significant part on the efforts of Fred R. Lowe, our president and chief executive officer, Debra Cerre-Ruedisili, our executive vice president and chief operating officer, and Kumar Gursahaney, our senior vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer. Many of our regional and local officers are also critical to our operations because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with the independent agencies who sell our products. We carry key person life insurance only on Ms. Cerre-Ruedisili. If we were to lose the services of members of our management team or key regional or local officers, we may be unable to find replacements satisfactory to us and our business. As a result, our operations may be disrupted and our financial performance may be adversely affected. WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE OR MAY BE AVAILABLE ONLY ON UNFAVORABLE TERMS. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by operations are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. We believe that the cash generated from operations, together with our anticipated retained earnings, will support our operations for at least the next 18 to 24 months without the need to raise additional capital. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, because many factors will affect the amount and timing of our capital needs, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result. In any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares currently outstanding. In the case of debt financings, we may be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to freely operate our business. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our future growth or operating plans and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. THE INSURANCE BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION THAT LIMITS THE WAY WE CAN OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. We are subject to extensive regulation by the Florida OIR and the insurance regulatory agencies in each state in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed. These state agencies have broad regulatory powers designed 28 primarily to protect policyholders and their employees, not the stockholders of AmCOMP. Regulations vary from state to state, but typically address or include: o standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; o restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; o restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; o mandates that may affect wage replacement and medical care benefits paid under the workers' compensation system; o procedures for adjusting claims, which can affect the ultimate amount for which a claim is settled; o restrictions on the way rates are developed and premiums are determined; o the manner in which general agencies may be appointed; o required methods of accounting for regulatory reporting; o establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; o limitations on our ability to transact business with affiliates; o mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving our insurance subsidiaries; o licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; o compliance with medical privacy laws; o potential assessments for the settlement of covered claims under insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and o the amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries may pay to us, the parent holding company. Stock insurance companies are subject to Florida statutes related to excess profits for workers' compensation insurance companies. Excessive profits are calculated based upon a complex statutory formula which is applied over rolling three year periods. Companies are required to file annual excess profits forms, and they are required to return so-called "excessive profits" to policyholders in the form of a cash refund or credit toward the future purchase of insurance. To date, we have not been required to return excess profits and no amounts have been provided for returns of excess profits in our financial statements. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, which are continually undergoing revision, or the relevant authority's interpretation of such laws and regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe generally to be followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. This extensive regulation of our business may affect the cost of our products and may limit our ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that we might pursue to increase our profitability. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations or interpretations by regulatory authorities could impact our operations and require us to bear additional costs of compliance. The NAIC has adopted a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital, known as "risk-based capital." This system establishes the minimum amount of capital and surplus calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles, necessary for an insurance company to support its overall business operations. It identifies insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer's assets and liabilities and its mix of net premiums written. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold 29 may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. See "Business--Regulation." For 2005, the Illinois insurance regulatory agency imposed a cap of $9.0 million on the annual premiums we could write because AmCOMP Preferred was not currently a licensed carrier in Illinois. This limit superseded a previous $2.5 million limit. The Illinois insurance regulatory agency considered our aggregation of the financial statements of AmCOMP Assurance, a licensed carrier in Illinois, and AmCOMP Preferred to be a reinsurance transaction with an unlicensed carrier and has required a deposit from us for premiums written in that state. In April 2006, Illinois lifted the limitation on annual premium writings, retroactive to January 1, 2006. In North Carolina, we were subject to a $12.0 million cap on written premiums during the 2002-2004 periods. Effective July 6, 2005, the cap was removed. ASSESSMENTS AND OTHER SURCHARGES BY GUARANTY FUNDS AND SECOND INJURY FUNDS AND OTHER MANDATORY POOLING ARRANGEMENTS MAY REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. Most states have guaranty fund laws under which insurers doing business in the state are required to fund policyholder liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. Generally, assessments are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits, on all insurers doing business in that state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by insurers doing business in that state in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Maximum contributions required by law in any one state in which we offer insurance vary between 0.3% and 2.0% of direct premiums written. We recorded an estimate of $5.7 million, $4.9 million and $4.3 million for our expected liability for guaranty fund assessments at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These liabilities were offset by related assets for expected recoveries in the form of premium tax credits in the amount of $2.4 million, $2.7 million, and $3.1 million at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. The assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our premiums written. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to reimburse employers and insurance carriers for workers' compensation benefits paid to employees who are injured and whose disability is increased by a prior work-related injury. The source of these funds is an assessment charged to workers' compensation insurance carriers doing business in such states. Assessments are based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. Several of the states in which we operate maintain second injury funds with material assessments. Our total liability for assessments was $8.3 million in 2006, $10.7 million in 2005, and $4.9 million in 2004. Our collections from these funds were $1.4 million in 2006, $2.2 million in 2005 and $3.4 million in 2004. There is significant uncertainty that these funds will have the money required to reimburse us for our claims. For example, Florida's fund currently has significant unfunded liabilities and no reserves exist to satisfy future claims. Consequently, we have recorded no asset for future collections. No recoveries are available from Florida's fund for claims arising from accidents occurring on or after January 1, 1998. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, the second injury fund assessment in South Carolina was doubled to 36.8% on losses. A pre-tax charge of $3.3 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2005 to reflect the impact of this rate change. During 2006, the second injury fund assessment rate in South Carolina decreased to 24.5% on losses. The impact of this rate change was to increase 2006 pre-tax income by $2.8 million. As a condition to the ability to conduct business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory workers' compensation shared market mechanisms, or pooling arrangements. These arrangements provide insurance to companies that are otherwise unable to obtain coverage due, for example, to their prior loss experience. Our estimated liability is based upon currently available information and could change based on additional information or reinterpretations of existing information concerning the actions of the pools. Although we price our products to account for the obligations that we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, our prices may not fully account for our liabilities under pooling arrangements, which may cause a decrease in our profits. We cannot predict the financial impact of our participation in any shared market or pooling mechanism that may be implemented in the future. As we write policies in new states that have pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the insolvency of other insurers in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. WE RELY ON OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AND THE FAILURE OF THESE SYSTEMS COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. 30 Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. As our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business. AS WE ONLY OFFER WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE, NEGATIVE DEVELOPMENTS IN THIS INDUSTRY WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We only offer workers' compensation insurance and have no plans to offer any other type of insurance. As a result of this concentration, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers' compensation insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant decrease in pricing due to increased competition or regulatory action, adverse court decisions interpreting states' workers' compensation laws and newly enacted legislation could negatively impact our business. On October 24, 2006, NCCI submitted an amended filing calling for a statewide decrease of 15.7%, which was approved by the Florida OIR on October 31, 2006. The new rates apply to all new and renewal policies as of January 1, 2007. The effect of the approved decrease cannot currently be ascertained. If the 2007 premium decrease had been in effect in 2006, our direct premiums written would have declined by $15.8 million, our Florida net loss ratio would have increased by 3.8% and our company-wide net loss ratio would have increased by 2.1%. If the approved rate decrease results in a material adverse effect on our profitability in Florida, we may elect to reduce the amount of premiums written there. In states in which we operate, other than administered pricing states, should our competitors offer products at prices lower than we believe would be profitable, we may decline to compete at those lower prices and our premium levels could be reduced. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers' compensation insurance that they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. As we offer only workers' compensation insurance, we must make a profit on this business and will not lower our price to obtain business below a price that we believe will be profitable for us. Adverse economic conditions for the construction industry across the states in which we do business could also adversely affect our business, as over 40% of our business historically has come from underwriting workers' compensation insurance for the construction industry. This industry is more vulnerable than most due to downturns in the local economy, including those in the housing market, and natural disasters. We also derive over 20.0% of our business from the goods and services industry and over 15% of our business from the manufacturing industry. Negative developments in these industries would have a greater effect on us, compared to more diversified insurers that also sell other types of insurance products. See also "--Our geographic concentration ties our performance to business, economic and regulatory conditions in certain states." IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN REINSURANCE, OUR ABILITY TO WRITE NEW POLICIES AND TO RENEW EXISTING POLICIES COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Like other insurers, we manage risk, in part, by buying reinsurance. We currently purchase excess of loss reinsurance. Under excess of loss reinsurance, a reinsurer reimburses the ceding company for losses and loss expenses over a specified dollar amount up to an agreed limit per occurrence. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, our excess of loss reinsurers assumed liability on each loss occurrence up to $30.0 million, $30.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively, subject to our retention of the first $2.0 million. We review and renegotiate our reinsurance protection each year. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance are subject to market conditions and to our experience with insured losses. We cannot be certain that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity would be reduced. These consequences could adversely affect our financial performance. 31 WE HAVE REDUCED OUR USE OF EXCESS OF LOSS REINSURANCE. THE GREATER RISK WE HAVE RETAINED COULD RESULT IN LOSSES. We reduced the amount of excess of loss reinsurance we purchased in 2005 and subsequent years compared to 2004. For policies effective January 1, 2005 or later, we no longer maintain reinsurance coverage for the layer of loss occurrences in excess of $1.0 million but not in excess of $2.0 million. This layer of excess of loss reinsurance was used in the past primarily to reduce the volatility of our financial results caused by large loss occurrences. We have continued to purchase excess of loss reinsurance for losses above $2.0 million, up to $20.0 million in 2005, and $30.0 million in 2006 and 2007. As a result of the reduction of excess of loss reinsurance purchased, we will reduce our overall reinsurance costs, but will also retain more losses from large loss occurrences. WE HAVE ELIMINATED OUR USE OF QUOTA SHARE REINSURANCE. THE GREATER RISK WE HAVE RETAINED COULD RESULT IN LOSSES. We terminated our quota share reinsurance effective June 30, 2004 on new and renewal business. Effective July 1, 2005, we terminated the quota share reinsurance we maintained on a run-off basis for policies written prior to June 30, 2004. Quota share reinsurance was used in the past primarily to increase our underwriting capacity and to reduce our exposure to losses. Quota share reinsurance refers to a form of reinsurance under which the reinsurer participates in a specified percentage of the premiums and losses on all reinsured policies in a given class of business. As a result of the termination of our quota share reinsurance, we retain and earn more of the premiums we write, but also retain more of the related losses. Our increased exposure to potential losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. LITIGATION AGAINST OUR INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our insurance subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions in the course of their insurance operations. Our subsidiaries have responded to the lawsuits, and we believe that there are meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously contest these claims. Adverse judgments in multiple lawsuits could require us to pay significant damage amounts in the aggregate or to change aspects of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. OUR STATUS AS AN INSURANCE HOLDING COMPANY WITH NO DIRECT OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR OBLIGATIONS AND PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE. AmCOMP is a holding company that transacts substantially all of its business through operating subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to meet obligations on outstanding debt, to pay stockholder dividends and to make other payments depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds. Payments of dividends and advances and repayments by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future. See "Business--Regulation--Financial, Dividend and Investment Restrictions." In addition, the payment of stockholder dividends by us is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Currently, we do not intend to pay dividends on our capital stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND REVENUES MAY FLUCTUATE AS A RESULT OF MANY FACTORS, INCLUDING CYCLICAL CHANGES IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO BE VOLATILE. The results of operations of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: o competition; o rising levels of loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we price our products; o volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made or natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; 32 o changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; o changes in the amount of loss reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liabilities; o changes in the regulatory or legal framework governing the worker's compensation system; o premium rate levels fixed by regulators; and o fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. During 1998, 1999 and 2000, the workers' compensation insurance industry experienced substantial pricing competition, and this pricing competition greatly affected our ability to increase premium rates in other than administered pricing states. Beginning in 2001, we witnessed a decrease in pricing competition in the industry, which enabled us to raise our rates. The pricing competition has returned during 2006 and this has again affected our ability to increase rates. The supply of insurance may increase, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers, which may cause prices to continue to decrease or remain flat. For example, in October 2006, the Florida OIR approved an overall average 15.7% decrease in premium rates for all workers' compensation insurance policies written by all Florida licensed insurance carriers in 2007. This reduction may have a material adverse effect on our profitability in Florida next year and may result in a decrease in the number of policies we issue in Florida in 2007. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer policies written. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. This cyclicality may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. INVESTIGATIONS INTO INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE PRACTICES COULD CAUSE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The Florida OIR is among the regulators that have been investigating insurance industry practices. On April 20, 2005, the Florida OIR announced that it had issued investigative subpoenas requesting information related to finite reinsurance activities in the insurance industry. Finite reinsurance is a type of reinsurance that is structured to limit the amount of insurance risk the reinsurer assumes. Prior to 2005, AmCOMP did purchase quota share reinsurance, which may have the characteristics of finite reinsurance. In cases where quota share reinsurance qualified for risk transfer, the transaction was treated in our financial statements as reinsurance. In certain other cases, where quota share reinsurance did not qualify for risk transfer, we recorded the effects of the transaction pursuant to deposit accounting. AmCOMP Assurance received and responded to an investigative subpoena from the Florida OIR requesting answers to interrogatories and the production of certain documents relating to the Florida OIR's civil investigation into finite reinsurance activities in the insurance industry. These inquiries were made to certain other Florida domestic insurers, as well as to certain reinsurers doing business with Florida domestic insurers. The Florida OIR's civil investigation, all developing regulatory responses related to the investigation and other investigations relating to brokerage practices in the insurance industry represent an evolving area of law. At this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations and inquiries may have upon the insurance markets and industry business practices. For example, they may lead to changes in industry practices that may make it more difficult for us to compete for insurance business, reduce the effectiveness of our business processes or increase our cost of doing business. For example, 12.0% of our direct premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2006 were collected by insurance agencies that are responsible for collecting premiums on our behalf. As we do not require a deposit or collateral from these agencies in respect of accrued balances, we may be subject to credit risk with respect to these agencies if they suffer severe financial difficulties as a result of these or other investigations. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that any of the arrangements into which we routinely enter with our agents were determined to be unlawful, we could be fined or otherwise penalized. These inquiries and investigations have also caused substantial volatility in the prices of insurance company stocks 33 generally, and this volatility may continue or increase in the future if these inquiries and investigations continue or are expanded. We also expect new regulatory requirements related to finite reinsurance to be imposed on the insurance industry. The NAIC has requested its Property and Casualty Reinsurance Study Group of the Reinsurance Task Force to formally study statutory financial accounting issues related to finite reinsurance. In an effort to eliminate the abuse of finite reinsurance contracts, changes have been proposed to filing forms that would require insurers to make specific disclosures related to finite reinsurance on their financial statement filings. Additionally, the Florida OIR has developed and continues to make additional new regulations that would require domestic insurers to make additional disclosures and attestations relating to their finite and other risk limiting reinsurance agreements and comply with new disclosure requirements. Increased regulation of finite reinsurance may affect the availability or cost of reinsurance in ways that are difficult to foresee at present, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investigations of broker placement and compensation practices initiated by the attorney general's office of certain states, including the State of New York, together with class action lawsuits initiated against such broker entities and certain insurance companies, have challenged the legality of certain activities conducted by these brokers and companies. The investigations and suits challenge, among other things, the appropriateness of setting fees paid to brokers based on the volume of business placed by a broker with a particular insurer or reinsurer; the payment of contingent fees to brokers by insurers or reinsurers and the alleged conflict of interest arising from such fee arrangements; the nondisclosure by brokers to their clients of contingent fees paid to them by insurers and reinsurers; bid rigging, and tying the receipt of direct insurance to placing reinsurance through the same broker. AmCOMP distributes its products through independent agents who are appointed by and represent the Company and does not distribute through brokers. In some cases, we do pay contingent commissions to our agents. To our knowledge, these investigations have been focused on broker practices. However, these investigations and lawsuits may change industry practices in unforeseeable ways and those changes could adversely affect the competitive environment in our business. ACTS OF TERRORISM COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND THE AVAILABILITY OF FEDERAL REIMBURSEMENT FOR ACTS OF TERRORISM COULD EXPIRE OR BE CURTAILED. We are required to provide workers' compensation benefits for losses resulting from certain acts of terrorism. The impact on us of any terrorist act will depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act, and could be material. The extent of losses from an act of terrorism is a function of both the number of workers employed by our policyholders in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The 2002 Act was enacted in response to the events of September 11, 2001. The program initiated by the 2002 Act applies to losses arising out of acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the Secretary of the Treasury. In order to be certified as an act of terrorism under the 2002 Act, losses incurred as a result of the act are required to exceed $5.0 million, and the act may not be an act of domestic terrorism. In addition, such losses must arise out of an act of terrorism committed in the course of a war declared by the United States Congress, except with respect to workers' compensation coverage. Under the 2002 Act, Federal reimbursement is subject to an annual aggregate limit of $100.0 billion. Each insurer is responsible for a deductible based on a percentage of its direct premiums earned in the previous calendar year. For losses in excess of the deductible, the Federal government will reimburse 90% of the insurer's loss, up to the insurer's proportionate share of the $100.0 billion. Insurers will not be liable for payments for any portion of losses in excess of the $100.0 billion annual limit. The 2005 Act extended the 2002 Act for an additional two years to December 31, 2007. While the underlying structure of the 2002 Act was left intact, the 2005 Act made some adjustments, including increasing the current insurer deductible to 20% of direct premiums earned in 2007. Our 2007 deductible is equal to 20% of 2006 direct premiums earned, or approximately $54 million. Commencing on January 1, 2007, for losses in excess of the deductible, Federal reimbursement decreased to 85% of the insurer's loss. After January 1, 2007, Federal reinsurance will only be available if industry aggregate insured losses from a certified act exceed $100.0 million. Insurers must still provide terrorism insurance for events causing losses up to the above amount, even though Federal reinsurance is only available for events causing losses exceeding that amount. Under the 2005 Act, insurers must offer coverage for losses due to terrorist acts in all of their commercial property and casualty insurance policies. The 2005 Act's definition of property and casualty insurance includes workers' compensation insurance. Moreover, the workers' compensation laws of the various states generally do not permit the exclusion of coverage for losses 34 arising from terrorist acts or from nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. In addition, we are not able to limit our loss arising from any one catastrophe or any one claimant. Our reinsurance policies exclude coverage for losses arising out of terrorism and nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. Therefore, acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The failure to extend the 2005 Act or its extension on terms less favorable to insurers could adversely affect our ability to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms and could influence our underwriting strategy and how we conduct our business in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK YOUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE DECISIONS MAY BE LIMITED BECAUSE OUR PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS BENEFICIALLY OWN 29% OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 29% of our outstanding stock. These stockholders may be able to determine who will be elected to our board of directors and to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including mergers, sales of assets and approval of other significant corporate transactions, in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in your best interest. This concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY DECREASE, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR A PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: o variations in our quarterly operating results; o changes in operating and stock performance of similar companies; o changes in earnings estimates and market price targets by securities analysts; o investor perception of the workers' compensation insurance industry and of our company; o results of operations that vary from those expected by securities and other market analysts and investors; o future sales of our securities; o litigation developments; o regulatory actions; o departures of key personnel; and o general market conditions, including market volatility. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies whose shares are publicly traded. As a result, the trading price of shares of our common stock may be below your purchase price and you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price that you paid, and you may lose some or all of your investment. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK, OR THE POSSIBILITY OR PERCEPTION THAT SUCH FUTURE SALES MIGHT OCCUR, MAY DEPRESS ITS PRICE. 35 The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial numbers of shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. This may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and at a price that you deem appropriate. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. There were 15,759,889 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 12, 2007. All of these shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except for the 2,762,717 shares held by our senior management, directors and their affiliates. We may also acquire other companies or assets or finance strategic alliances by issuing equity, which may result in additional dilution to you. FLORIDA AND OTHER APPLICABLE STATE INSURANCE LAWS, CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF AMCOMP AND COULD ALSO LIMIT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Florida insurance law prohibits any person from acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of us or any of our insurance subsidiaries without the prior approval of the Florida OIR. Any person who acquires between 5% and 10% of the outstanding securities of us or any of our subsidiaries must file a disclaimer of control with the Florida OIR, provided that the acquiror is not going to participate in management or control. If the acquirer is planning on participating in management or control, they must obtain prior approval from the Florida OIR for any acquisition exceeding 5%. Any person wishing to acquire control of us or of any substantial portion of our outstanding shares would first be required to obtain the approval of the Florida OIR. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to the state insurance department of a change of control of a non-domiciliary insurance company licensed to transact insurance in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change of control, they authorize regulatory action (including a possible revocation of our authority to do business) in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change of control of us may require prior notification in the states that have pre-acquisition notification laws. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of AmCOMP, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: o authorizing our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock without further stockholder approval; o limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; o advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at the stockholder meetings; and o prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby limiting stockholder action to that taken at a meeting of our stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of its voting stock for a period of three years after the date such person acquired such voting stock, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS ON OUR CAPITAL STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. 36 We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. The amount of cash we may have available is in part limited by dividend restrictions imposed on our insurance subsidiaries by state insurance laws and regulations, which prescribe the amount of dividends our insurance subsidiaries can pay us. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. WE ARE EXPOSED TO RISKS RELATING TO EVALUATIONS OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIRED BY SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. As a public company, absent an available exemption, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than December 31, 2007. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness." A "material weakness" is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. OUR MANAGEMENT AND INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM HAVE IN THE PAST DETERMINED THAT THERE ARE MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. During their audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain reportable conditions that constitute material weaknesses in the internal controls over financial reporting of our insurance subsidiaries, AmCOMP Assurance and AmCOMP Preferred. With regard to AmCOMP Assurance and AmCOMP Preferred, our independent auditors noted that audit adjustments were identified during the 2004 audit process in areas that require management judgment and accounting estimates and impacted the assessment accrual and commission accruals. Our analyses of these accounts had not been updated for all known information at the time of the audit or were not used to adjust the general ledger to the appropriate amount. As a result, audit adjustments on the financial statements we prepared were required. During the preparation of the financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm and management identified certain reportable conditions that constitute material weaknesses in the internal controls over financial reporting. Specifically, our independent auditors noted that an error was made in the presentation of our book overdrafts. The error was the result of a book overdraft position being presented as a reduction of "cash and cash equivalents" rather than as an "other liabilities" and required that certain previously filed financial statements be restated. Our audit committee and management team agreed with the matters identified as material weaknesses. In response, we initiated corrective actions to address these control deficiencies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 