ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties. Seasonal Fluctuations in Sales and Earnings Affect Our Quarterly Results. Our sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. Historically our highest sales and earnings have occurred in the second and third calendar quarters, which we believe is typical of the restaurant industry and consumer spending patterns in general. In addition, quarterly results have been and, in the future are likely to be, substantially affected by the timing of new restaurant openings. Because of the seasonality of our business and the impact of new restaurant openings, results for any calendar quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year and cannot be used to indicate financial performance for the entire year. Inflation May Adversely Impact Our Net Income. We believe that inflation impacted net income during fiscal year 2005. Substantial increases in utility expenses, energy-related materials such as paper supplies, and health insurance costs had a marked impact on our operating results to the extent such increases could not be passed along to customers. There can be no assurance that we will not experience the same inflationary impact in the future. If operating expenses increase, our management intends to attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices to the extent deemed advisable in light of competitive conditions. An Increase In Our Interest Rates May Adversely Impact Net Income. Our exposure to interest rate fluctuations is limited to our outstanding bank debt with Bank of America. The interest rate is either the prime rate or LIBOR plus a stipulated percentage. Accordingly, we are impacted by changes in the prime rate and LIBOR. As of January 1, 2006, we had $2.5 million outstanding on our credit facility with Bank of America. We are presently in full compliance with all debt covenants as amended. We expect to be in compliance with all debt covenants in fiscal year 2006. As of January 1, 2006, we also had $3.0 million in notes which have a fixed interest rate of 7.0% (See Note 3 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements). We plan to prepay $2.5 million in notes on March 31, 2006 by borrowing from our Bank of America credit facility. 10 Our Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Borrow. Under our current credit agreement with Bank of America, we are subject to certain reporting requirements and financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain minimum levels of net worth and various financial ratios. Although we are currently in compliance with such financial covenants, an erosion of our business could place us out of compliance in future periods. Potential remedies for the lender if we are not in compliance include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens; however, in the event of any future noncompliance we may seek a waiver from such lender. See Note 3, Long-term Debt, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Rising Insurance Costs Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. We are insured against a variety of uncertainties. While the cost of certain insurance coverages increased in 2005, we were able to negotiate lower premium costs for other insurance coverages, and in general, were able to minimize the overall increase and impact of all total insurance costs to us. Each year, we renew our insurance coverages. While we try to be proactive in our efforts to control insurance costs, market forces beyond our control may thwart our ability to manage these costs. For example, we expect insurance premiums for property and casualty insurance to increase in light of the impact of Hurricane Rita on the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. An increase in premiums could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to negate the effect of such increases by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Our Small Restaurant Base and Geographic Concentration Make Our Operations More Susceptible to Local Economic Conditions. The results achieved to date by our relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area. Because of our relatively small restaurant base, an unsuccessful new restaurant could have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case in a company owning more restaurants. Additionally, given our present geographic concentration (all of our company-owned units are currently in Texas, especially along the Gulf Coast region, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Michigan), results of operations may be adversely affected by economic or other conditions in the region, such as hurricanes, and any adverse publicity in the region relating to our restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall sales than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. Our Management and Directors Hold a Majority of the Common Stock. Approximately 69.3% of our Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock are beneficially owned or held by Larry N. Forehand, David Nierenberg, Michael D. Domec and Louis P. Neeb, directors and/or executive officers. As a result, these individuals have substantial control over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market against other family dining concepts, as well as quick service and casual dining concepts, for customers, employees and franchisees. Several of our competitors operate more restaurants and have significantly greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we do. Our inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in General Economic and Political Conditions Affect Consumer Spending and May Harm Our Revenues and Operating Results. The United States experienced an economic expansion throughout most of 2005, including Texas where the majority of our restaurants operate. Although the forecast for 2006 is generally favorable, there are a few significant economic developments that could weaken economic conditions. Rising fuel and energy costs could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues. Additionally, the continued responses to the terrorist attacks on the United States, possible future terrorist attacks and the conflict in Iraq and its aftermath may exacerbate current economic conditions and lead to a weakening in the economy. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in discretionary spending by our customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Implementing Our Growth Strategy May Strain its Resources. Our ability to expand by adding Company-owned and franchised restaurants will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management and hourly employees, the availability of acceptable lease terms and adequate financing, timely construction of restaurants, the ability to obtain various government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The opening of additional franchised restaurants will 11 depend, in part, upon the ability of existing and future franchisees to obtain financing or investment capital adequate to meet their market development obligations. Based on our experience in attempting to grow outside our existing markets, we have found there can be limited consumer acceptance and that the cost of such efforts can have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Shares Eligible for Future Sale Could Adversely Impact the Stock Price. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In connection with our 1996 initial public offering, we granted limited registration rights to holders of warrants granted by us and Larry N. Forehand to Louis P. Neeb, Tex-Mex Partners, L.C. and a former officer to register the 757,465 underlying shares of Common Stock subject to such warrants in connection with registrations otherwise undertaken by us. Such warrants have an exercise price of $10.90 per share. If we register these shares and these shareholders are able to sell a large portion of their holdings on the open market at one time, the market price of the Common Stock will likely decline. In any event, the market price of the Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. These warrants will expire on April 24, 2006. Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. From time to time we are subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether it is liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to state “dramshop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Although we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Compliance with Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses. Keeping up-to-date and in compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 