Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors We have a limited operating history and a history of substantial operating losses and we may not be able to continue our business. We have a history of substantial operating losses. For the year ended September 30, 2008, our net loss was $5,921,511. We have historically experienced cash flow difficulties primarily because our expenses have exceeded our revenues. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the immediate near future. These factors, among others, raise significant doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our operations to pay expenses or we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We will need additional financing in order to continue our operations which we may not be able to raise. We will require additional capital to finance our future operations. We can provide no assurance that we will obtain additional financing sufficient to meet our future needs on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. If we are unable to obtain the necessary financing, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We have no employees and our success is dependent on our ability to retain and attract consultants to operate our business and there is no assurance that we can do so. - 4 - - As discussed above, as of September 30, 2008, we have no employees and utilize the services of consultants. They are not otherwise prohibited from terminating their consulting relationship with the Company. The loss of the knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of these key consultants could have a material adverse impact on our future prospects. Once we are sufficiently capitalized, we will need to recruit new executive managers and hire employees to help us execute our business strategy and help manage the growth of our business. Our business could suffer if we were unable to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel or if we were to lose any key personnel and not be able to find appropriate replacements in a timely manner. Litigation concerning intellectual property could adversely affect our business. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademark law, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements and certain technology and security measures to protect our trademarks, license, proprietary technology and know-how. However, we can provide no assurance that competitors will not infringe upon our rights in our intellectual property or that competitors will not similarly make claims against us for infringement. If we are required to be involved in litigation involving intellectual property rights, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. It is possible that third parties might claim infringement by us with respect to past, current or future technologies. We expect that participants in our markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry grows. Any claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and could cause service upgrade delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of the shares of common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. There are a significant number of estimates associated with the preparation of our financial statements. In order to prepare the financial statements for our Company, management must make numerous estimates. Some of the estimates include estimated lives of fixed assets, various estimates needed to determine the recoverability of goodwill or intangible assets as well as other computations used to prepare the financial statements. These estimates can have a material effect on the financial statements. Our stock price can be extremely volatile. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Pink Sheets. There can be no assurance that an active public market will continue for the common stock, or that the market price for the common stock will not decline below its current price. Such price may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to, investor perception of us and our industry and general economic and market conditions. The trading price of the common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock. - 5 - - Trading on the OTC Pink Sheets may be sporadic because it is not a stock exchange, and stockholders may have difficulty reselling their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. Moreover, the OTC Pink Sheets is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Pink Sheets is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. - 6 - - Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have not declared cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and we have no present intention of paying cash dividends on our common stock. Item 