ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our company will be subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business Periods of Sustained Economic Adversity and Uncertainty Could Negatively Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers. Economic downturns, such as the one presently underway, could cause many of our customers to reduce their levels of capital and maintenance expenditures. Decreased capital and maintenance spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations, cash flow and overall financial condition. The current unprecedented disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future, which could result in the delay or cancellation of projects or capital programs on which our business depends. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on regional and world economies and credit markets, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. These conditions could result in bankruptcy or insolvency for customers, which would impact our revenue and cash collections. These conditions 10 Table of Contents could also result in pricing pressure and less favorable financial terms in our contracts. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. The Failed Merger with JDA Could Negatively Affect Our Business. On August 10, 2008, we entered into the Merger Agreement with JDA under which i2 would merge with and into Merger Sub, with i2 to survive the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of JDA. On December 3, 2008, we terminated the Merger Agreement because our board of directors did not believe the Merger or an acceptable alternative transaction with JDA could be finalized. See “Item 1. Business — Recent Developments — Termination of JDA Merger Agreement.” The termination of the Merger Agreement with JDA and the failure to complete the Merger may result in, among other things, downward pressure on our stock; lawsuits; employee turnover and continued uncertainty for our management, sales staff, and other employees; uncertainty for existing and potential customers regarding our ability to meet our contractual obligations; and potential additional calls by shareholders to continue to pursue the public sale of the Company. Beginning in the third quarter and continuing into the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we experienced purchasing delays by some customers attributable to the Merger. Continued uncertainty regarding any future strategic transaction involving the Company could cause additional customer delays, potential customer losses, lower bookings, revenue, and cash flow and/or employee attrition. These distractions could harm our business, the results of operations, cash flow, and our overall financial condition. Certain Large Stockholders Have Called For the Public Sale of the Company, and May Continue to Call for Such a Sale Following the Failure to Complete the Merger with JDA. On September 13, 2007, Amalgamated Gadget, L.P. (“Amalgamated”), a beneficial owner of all of our Series B Preferred Stock (which was convertible into approximately 17.7% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008), filed an amendment to its Schedule 13D announcing that it was exercising rights under the terms of our Series B preferred stock to name two persons to our Board of Directors and stating, among other things, that i2 should explore strategic options, including a possible outright sale of i2 or its assets. Michael J. Simmons and David L. Pope were elected to the Board of Directors in September 2007 by the holders of our Series B preferred stock. On October 3, 2007, S.A.C. Capital Advisors, LLC filed a Schedule 13D announcing that it was at that time a beneficial owner of approximately 8.9% of our common stock and stating, among other things, that the value of i2’s assets is not appropriately reflected in the price of our common stock and that the best way to increase stockholder value would be a public sale of i2. On November 1, 2007, the Company announced that, in connection with an ongoing review of i2’s management, operations and strategy which was initiated early in 2007, the Board of Directors of i2 was forming a Strategic Review Committee comprised of three independent directors to consider and evaluate the merits of the various strategic options available to i2 to enhance stockholder value. The strategic options that were subsequently considered by the Strategic Review Committee included: changes to our operations; actions or transactions intended to enhance the value or utilization of our existing assets; joint ventures or strategic partnerships; selective acquisitions, dispositions or other capital transactions; and a merger, sale or other extraordinary business transaction involving the Company. The evaluation of strategic options by the Strategic Review Committee led to, among other things, the proposed Merger with JDA. In light of the failure of that merger to be completed, the Strategic Review Committee will continue to consider and evaluate other possible strategic options involving the Company. However, continued pressure by activist stockholders for the sale of the Company (especially in light of the Company’s termination of the Merger Agreement with JDA and the failure of that merger to be completed), and/or the Company’s ongoing exploration of other strategic options, could create distractions for our management, sales staff and other employees and create uncertainty in existing and potential customers regarding our ability to meet our contractual obligations. Such distractions and uncertainty could lead to the Company incurring significant costs and expenses as well as increased employee turnover and a substantial diversion of 11 Table of Contents management’s time and resources and, accordingly, could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. There can be no assurance as to what other strategic option, if any, the Board of Directors will decide to pursue to enhance stockholder value or if and when such decision will be made. Regardless of the decision of the Board of Directors, there can be no assurance that such decision will enhance stockholder value or be agreed to or supported by all of our stockholders. Upon a change of control, unless otherwise agreed to by a majority of the holders of outstanding Series preferred stock, we are required to exchange outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock for cash at 110% of face value plus all accrued but unpaid dividends. The exchange amount pursuant to this provision as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $120.2 million. The fixed payment due to the holders of our Series B preferred stock upon a change of control may cause a holder of Series B preferred stock to be in favor of a change of control event at a lower value than would be favored by holders of common stock. Additionally, upon a change of control, at the election of the holders, we would be required to repurchase our convertible notes for cash at the higher of (a) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or (b) the conversion value of the convertible notes together with a make-whole premium designed to approximate the lost option time value if the event occurs prior to November 15, 2010. However, as of February 28, 2009 (after giving effect to the repurchases of the 5% Notes that occurred in February 2009), the unpaid principal amount of the convertible notes was $3.5 million. The conversion value and make whole payment would depend upon the price of i2’s common stock at the time of a change of control and would exceed the principal amount of the convertible notes if the price were greater than $13.45 per share. (See “Item 1. Business — Recent Developments — Repurchase of the Company’s 5% Senior Convertible Notes” and “Note 16 — Subsequent Events” in the financial statements included in this report regarding repurchases of convertible notes which occurred after December 31, 2008.) Our Financial Results Have Varied And May Continue To Vary Significantly From Quarter To Quarter And We May Fail To Meet Analysts’ And Investors’ Expectations. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect our operating results to continue to vary from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Although our revenues are subject to fluctuation, significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term, such as our lease and purchase commitments. If we cannot reduce expenses quickly to respond to decreases in revenues, a revenue shortfall is likely to adversely and disproportionately affect our operating results. These factors have caused our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in the past and may do so again in the future. We Have In The Past Experienced Negative Cash Flows. A Failure To Maintain Profitability And Achieve Consistent Positive Cash Flows Would Have A Significant Adverse Effect On Our Business, Impair Our Ability To Support Our Operations And Adversely Affect Our Liquidity. We experienced negative cash flows during the quarters ended March 31, 2007, September 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and each of the five years ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to sharp declines in our revenues and our historical inability to reduce our expenses to a level at or below the level of our revenues. A failure to maintain profitability and achieve consistent positive cash flows could impair our ability to support our operations, adversely affect our liquidity and threaten our ability to repay our debts when they come due. Negative cash flows and the adverse market perception associated therewith may negatively affect our ability to sell our products and maintain existing customer relationships, and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing on advantageous terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining an adequate level of cash resources and we may be forced to act more aggressively in the future in the area of expense reduction in order to conserve cash resources. 12 Table of Contents We May Require Additional Private Or Public Debt Or Equity Financing to Support Our Operations. Such Financing May Only Be Available On Disadvantageous Terms, Or May Not Be Available At All. Any New Financing Could Have A Substantial Dilutive Effect On Our Existing Stockholders. At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $238 million and a working capital balance of $187.4 million. Our cash position may decline in the future, and we may not be successful in maintaining an adequate level of cash resources. We may be required to seek private or public debt or equity financing in order to support our operations, satisfy the conversion obligation with respect to our senior convertible notes, repurchase our senior convertible notes and/or repay our senior convertible notes. (See “Note 6 — Borrowing and Debt Issues Costs” in the financial statements included in this report.) We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, and any new financing could have a substantial dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. The indenture governing our 5% senior convertible notes contained a debt incurrence covenant that placed restrictions on the amount and type of additional indebtedness that we can incur; however, this covenant was eliminated in conjunction with the repurchase of convertible notes and amendment of the indenture that occurred in February 2009. (See “Item 1. Business — Recent Developments — Repurchase of the Company’s 5% Senior Convertible Notes”.) If We Are Unable To Develop And Generate Additional Demand For Our Products, Serious Harm Could Result To Our Business. We have invested significant resources in developing and marketing our products and services. The demand for, and market acceptance of, our products and services is subject to a high level of uncertainty. Adoption of software solutions, particularly by those individuals and enterprises that have historically relied upon traditional means of commerce and communication, requires a broad acceptance of substantially different methods of conducting business and exchanging information. Our products and services are often considered complex and may involve a new approach to the conduct of business by our customers. As a result, intensive marketing and sales efforts may be necessary to educate prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of these products and services in order to generate additional demand. The market for our products and services may weaken, competitors may develop superior products and services or we may fail to develop acceptable solutions to address new market conditions. Any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We May Not Be Competitive, And Increased Competition Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Relative to us, some of our competitors have one or more of the following advantages: • Longer operating history • Greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources • More consistent positive cash flows • Longer history of profitable operations • Greater name recognition • A broader range of products to offer • Better product functionality and performance in certain areas • A larger installed base of customers Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products, which may result in increased competition. In addition, we expect to experience increasing price competition as we compete for market share. We understand 13 Table of Contents that some competitors are offering enterprise application software at no charge as components of product bundles. Further, traditional enterprise resource planning vendors have focused more resources on the development and marketing of enterprise application software, particularly in the product and industry segments in which we compete, and, increasingly, corporate information technology departments are undertaking internal development efforts. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. We Have Been And Continue To Be Subject To Product Quality And Performance Claims And Other Litigation (including Shareholder Derivative and Class Action Litigation), Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. From time to time, customers make claims pertaining to the quality and performance of our software and services, citing a variety of issues. Whether customer claims regarding the quality and performance of our products and services are founded or unfounded, they may adversely impact customer demand and affect the market perception of our company, our products and our services. Any such damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our software products generally are used by our customers in mission-critical applications where component failures or software errors could cause significant damages. Although we conduct testing and quality assurance through a release management process, we may not discover errors until our customers install and use a given product or until the volume of services that a product provides increases. Errors could result in loss of customers and reputation, adverse publicity, loss of revenues, delays in market acceptance, diversion of development and consulting resources and claims against us by customers. To mitigate this exposure, our license agreements typically seek to limit our exposure to product liability claims from our customers. However, these contract provisions may not preclude all potential claims. Additionally, our insurance policies may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may face. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any claim, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. On March 7, 2007, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Chancery Court against certain of our current and former officers and directors, naming the Company as a nominal defendant. The complaint, entitled George Keritsis and Mark Kert v. Michael E. McGrath, Michael J. Berry, Pallab K. Chatterjee, Robert C. Donohoo, Hiten D. Varia, M. Miriam Wardak, Sanjiv S. Sidhu, Stephen P. Bradley, Harvey B. Cash, Richard L. Clemmer, Lloyd G. Waterhouse, Jackson L. Wilson, Jr., Robert L. Crandall and i2 Technologies, Inc., alleges breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment in connection with stock option grants to certain of the defendant officers and directors on three dates in 2004 and 2005. The complaint states that those stock option grants were manipulated so as to work to the recipients’ favor when material non-public information about the Company was later disclosed to positive or negative effect. The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek relief from the Company, but does seek damages and other relief from the defendant officers and directors. We have entered into indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business with certain of the defendant officers and directors and may be obligated throughout the pendency of this action to advance payment of legal fees and costs incurred by the defendants pursuant to our obligations under the indemnification agreements and/or applicable Delaware law. The Company reached a settlement agreement with plaintiffs, which was approved by the Court on November 6, 2008. The settlement required the Company to adopt certain policies regarding the granting of stock options. These policies were implemented prior to the settlement. The settlement does not require the Company to pay any sum to the plaintiffs except for $200,000 in attorneys’ fees and costs. These costs have been previously accrued and were paid in the fourth quarter of 2008. On October 23, 2007, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Chancery Court against certain of our current and former officers and directors, naming the Company as a nominal defendant. The complaint, entitled John McPadden, Sr. v. Sanjiv S. Sidhu, Stephen Bradley, Harvey B. Cash, Richard L. 14 Table of Contents Clemmer, Michael E. McGrath, Lloyd G. Waterhouse, Jackson L. Wilson, Jr., Robert L. Crandall and Anthony Dubreville and i2 Technologies, Inc., alleges breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment based upon allegations that the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, Trade Services Corporation, for an inadequate price in 2005. The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek relief from the Company, but does seek damages and other relief from the defendant officers and directors. The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on December 28, 2007. On August 29, 2008, the court granted the motion to dismiss as to all defendants but Mr. Dubreville (one of our former officers). On August 11, 2008, two suits were filed in state district court in Texas against (among others) the Company and certain members of its Board of Directors. Each of the two suits sought injunctive relief prohibiting the closing of the sale of the Company’s common stock pursuant to the Merger with JDA, and each of the named plaintiffs purported to represent a class of holders of the Company’s common stock. One of the two suits was thereafter dismissed by the plaintiff. The other, styled John D. Norsworthy, on Behalf of Himself and All Others Similarly Situated, v. i2 Technologies, Inc., et al., remains pending in the 134th District Court of Dallas County, Texas. On November 5, 2008, the District Court held a hearing on plaintiff Norsworthy’s motion for a temporary restraining order, and at the conclusion of the hearing denied the motion in its entirety. To date, the plaintiff has not requested monetary relief other than his attorneys’ fees and costs. Based on the stage of the litigation, it is not known whether he may hereafter do so, nor is it possible to estimate the amount or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of this matter. Despite the termination of the Merger Agreement with JDA, the plaintiff has not dismissed nor amended his petition as of the date of this report. We may face other claims and litigation in the future that could harm our business and impair our liquidity. Defending against existing and potential litigation and other proceedings may continue to require us to spend significant time and money and to pay significant damages. We cannot assure you that the time, effort and financial resources that could be required will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The Loss Of Key Personnel Or Our Failure To Attract Additional Personnel Could Seriously Harm Our Company. We rely upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical, sales and senior management personnel, and we have recently experienced higher turnover than desired among our key personnel. While we place a high emphasis on retention of key personnel, we nonetheless face intense competition for these qualified individuals from numerous technology and software companies, many of whom may be able to offer more competitive compensation packages than us. In addition, our employees can typically resign with little or no previous notice, which often gives us a limited opportunity to discuss possible retention with such employees. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. The loss of any of our key employees, our inability to reduce the increased turnover of key employees or our inability to attract, train and retain other highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Effective December 17, 2008, our Board of Directors appointed Jackson L. Wilson Jr., our Executive Chairman, as new Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) to replace Dr. Pallab K. Chatterjee, who left the Company effective December 31, 2008. Dr. Chatterjee was appointed as our CEO on May 13, 2008 and prior to that, had been our interim CEO since July 31, 2007. Mr. Wilson has been our Executive Chairman of the Board since May 5, 2008. Mr. Wilson has served as a director of our company since April 2005. Any further turnover in our CEO position or our other senior management positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Restructuring and Reorganization Initiatives Pose Significant Risks To Our Business We have implemented and continue to evaluate restructuring initiatives involving reducing our workforce in an effort to achieve our profitability objectives. This includes a reduction in our workforce of approximately 85 personnel in the first quarter of 2009. These activities pose significant risks to our business, including the risk that key employees whom we desire to retain will leave because they disagree with our initiatives; that terminated employees will disparage the company, file legal claims against us related to their termination of employment, become employed by competitors or share our intellectual property or other sensitive information with others; and that the reorganization will not achieve targeted efficiencies. The failure to retain and effectively manage our remaining employees or achieve our targeted efficiencies through the reorganization could increase our costs, adversely affect our development efforts and adversely affect the quality of our products and customer service. If customers become dissatisfied with our products or service, our maintenance renewals may decrease, our customers may take legal action against us and our sales to existing customers could decline, leading to reduced revenues. Failure to achieve the desired results of our restructuring and reorganization initiatives could increase employee turnover and harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Because Our Software Products Are Intended To Work Within Complex Business Processes, Implementation Or Upgrades Of Our Products Can Be Difficult, Time-Consuming And Expensive, And Customers May Be Unable To Implement Or Upgrade Our Products Successfully Or Otherwise Achieve The Benefits Attributable To Our Products. This May Result In Customer Dissatisfaction, Harm To Our Reputation And Cause Non-Payment Issues. Our products typically must integrate with the many existing computer systems and software programs of our customers. This can be complex, time-consuming and expensive, and may cause delays in the deployment of our products. As a result, some customers may have difficulty implementing our products successfully or otherwise achieving the benefits attributable to our products. Delayed or ineffective implementation or upgrades of our software and services may limit our future sales opportunities, impact revenues, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our reputation, or cause non-payment issues. Failure To Complete Development Projects As Planned Could Harm Our Operating Results And Create Business Distractions And Negative Publicity That Could Harm Our Business. Risks associated with our software solutions and other development projects include, but are not limited to: • Customers may withhold cash payments or cancel contracts if we fail to meet our delivery commitments, the customers have financial difficulties or change strategy, or the functionality delivered is not acceptable to the customers. We are particularly susceptible to this with respect to arrangements where payments are scheduled to occur later in the engagement. • The cancellation or scaling back of one or more of our larger software solutions or other development projects could have a material adverse impact on future software solutions revenues. • We may be unable to recognize revenue associated with software solutions and other development projects in accordance with expectations. We generally recognize revenue from software solutions and other development projects over time using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Failure to complete project phases in accordance with the overall project plan can create variability in our expected revenue streams if we are not able to recognize revenues related to particular projects because of delays in development. • Many of our software solutions and other development projects are fixed-price arrangements. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project or the customer attempts to change the scope of the project, the profit, if any, realized from the project would be adversely affected to the extent that we have to add additional resources to complete the project. 16 Table of Contents If We Fail To Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights Or Face A Claim Of Intellectual Property Infringement By A Third Party, We Could Lose Our Intellectual Property Rights Or Be Liable For Significant Damages. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. However, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. This is particularly true in India, where a significant portion of our operations are located, and other foreign countries such as China and Russia where the laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and may not provide us with an effective remedy against piracy. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. Litigation to defend our intellectual property rights has in the past been, and could in the future be, time-consuming and costly. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. As a result, we may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation or damages, cause product shipment delays or the loss or deferral of sales, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If we enter into royalty or licensing agreements in settlement of any litigation or claims, these agreements may not be on terms favorable to us. Unfavorable royalty and licensing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Serious Harm To Our Business Could Result If Our Encryption Technology Fails To Ensure The Security Of Our Customers’ On-line Transactions. The secure exchange of confidential information over public networks is a significant concern of consumers engaging in on-line transactions and interaction. Some of our software applications use encryption technology to provide the security necessary to affect the secure exchange of valuable and confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that these applications use to protect customer transaction data. If any compromise or breach were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We Are Dependent On Third-Party Software That We Incorporate Into And Include With Our Products And Solutions, And Impaired Relations With These Third Parties, Defects In Third-Party Software Or The Inability To Enhance Their Software Over Time Could Harm Our Business. We incorporate and include third-party software into and with certain of our products and solutions. Additionally, we may incorporate and include additional third-party software into and with our products and solutions in future product offerings. The operation of our products could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the development and maintenance of the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to make their software available to us on acceptable terms, to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the software capabilities, or to remain in business. Further, due to the limited number of vendors of certain types of third-party software, it may be difficult for us to replace any third-party software if a vendor seeks to terminate our license to the software or our ability to license the software to customers. Any impairment in our relationship with these third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We Face Risks Associated With International Sales And Operations That Could Harm Our Company. International revenues accounted for approximately 43% of our total revenues during 2007 and 42% in 2008, and we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from international sales in the future. Our international operations are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including the tendency of markets outside of the U.S. to be more volatile and difficult to forecast than the U.S. market. Any of the following factors, among other things, could adversely affect the success of our international operations: • Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing geographically disparate operations • Extended accounts receivable collection cycles in certain countries • Compliance with a variety of foreign business practices, laws and regulations • Overlap of different tax structures and regimes, including transfer pricing • Meeting import and export licensing requirements • Trade restrictions • Changes in tariff and tax rates • Changes in general economic and political conditions in international markets In addition, we conduct a large portion of our software solutions development and services operations in India. The distributed nature of our development and consulting resources could create operational challenges and complications since we have a heightened risk exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India. Operational issues, recruiting and retention issues, ability to obtain work permits, economic and political instability, military actions, currency fluctuations and other unforeseen occurrences in India could impair our ability to develop and introduce new software applications and functionality in a timely manner, or hinder our ability to provide cost-competitive services, either of which could put our products at a competitive disadvantage and cause us to lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers. We May Make Future Acquisitions Or Enter Into Joint Ventures That Are Not Successful, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Historically, we have acquired technology or businesses to supplement and expand our product offerings. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business. Negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures and our integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue equity securities that would dilute existing stockholders, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets, or write off in-process research and development and other acquisition-related expenses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may not be able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses with our existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired businesses, or combine potentially different corporate cultures. Failure to do so could deprive us of the intended benefits of those acquisitions. In addition, we may be required to write-off acquired research and development if further development of purchased technology becomes unfeasible, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Changes In The Value Of The U.S. Dollar, As Compared To The Currencies Of Foreign Countries Where We Transact Business, Could Harm Our Operating Results. To date, our international revenues have been denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars. However, the majority of our international expenses, including the wages of approximately 64% of our employees, have been denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. We have implemented limited 18 Table of Contents hedging programs to mitigate our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting international accounts receivable, cash balances and intercompany accounts, but we do not hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting future international revenues and expenses and other commitments. For the foregoing reasons, currency exchange rate fluctuations have caused, and likely will continue to cause, variability in our foreign currency denominated revenue streams and our cost to settle foreign currency denominated liabilities. We May Not Be Able to Fully Realize The Benefits Of Our Deferred Tax Assets. Our ability to utilize our domestic net operating loss carry forwards and other tax attributes during their remaining life is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient domestic taxable income during the carry forward periods. If we do not generate sufficient domestic taxable income, the remaining deferred tax assets related to these items may expire without being fully utilized. We have recorded a valuation reserve against our domestic deferred tax assets to reflect the risk. In addition, pursuant to section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amount of and benefit from our domestic net operating loss carry forwards, and other tax attributes, may be impaired or limited in certain circumstances. Events which cause limitations on the amount of net operating losses and other tax attributes that we may utilize in the future include, but are not limited to, a cumulative change in ownership of greater than 50% in the value of the company (for those instruments that constitute equity for section 382 purposes), over the lesser of a three-year period ending on a specific testing date or a previous ownership change date. A testing date generally occurs upon the issuance, transfer or repurchase of the company’s securities or debt that is treated as a security for purposes of determining an ownership change. A cumulative change in ownership of greater than 50% would limit our ability to fully utilize our domestic net operating loss carry forwards. Failure Or Circumvention Of Our Controls And Procedures Or Failure To Comply With Regulations Related To Controls And Procedures Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Over time, we have made significant changes in and may consider making additional changes to our internal controls, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure of our controls, policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related To Our Industry If Our Products Are Not Able To Deliver Fast, Demonstrable Value To Our Customers, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. Enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide faster time to value on their technology investments. We must continue to improve the speed of our implementations and the pace at which our products deliver value or our competitors may gain important strategic advantages over us. If we cannot successfully respond to these market demands, or if our competitors do so more effectively than we do, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Releases Of And Problems With New Products May Cause Purchasing Delays, Which Would Harm Our Revenues. Our practice and the practice in the industry are to periodically develop and release new products and enhancements. As a result, customers may delay their purchasing decisions in anticipation of our new or enhanced products, or products of competitors. Delays in customer purchasing decisions could seriously harm our business and operating results. Moreover, significant delays in the general availability of new releases, 19 Table of Contents significant problems in the installation or implementation of new releases, or customer dissatisfaction with new releases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related To Our Stock Our Stock Price Historically Has Been Volatile, Which May Make It More Difficult To Resell Common Stock At Attractive Prices. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and may continue to be volatile in the future, especially in light of the recent unprecedented disruptions in the U.S. and worldwide financial and stock markets. The following factors could significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • Continued quarterly variations in our results of operations and cash flows • Technological innovations by our competitors or us • Announcement of new customers, new products, product enhancements, a possible sale of our company, or joint ventures and other alliances by our competitors or us • Additional equity or debt financing transactions, or the absence thereof • Stock valuations or performance of our competitors • General market conditions, geopolitical events or market conditions specific to particular industries • Perceptions in the marketplace of performance problems involving our products and services The Price Of Our Common Stock May Decline Due To Shares Eligible For Future Sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the appearance that a large number of our shares are available for sale, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. In addition to the adverse effect a price decline could have on holders of common stock, that decline would likely impede our ability to raise capital by issuing additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. Our Executive Officers, Directors, And Largest Stockholders Have Significant Influence Over Stockholder Votes. As of January 1, 2009, our current executive officers and directors together directly or indirectly controlled approximately 21.9% of the total voting power of our company, which includes approximately 20.7% controlled by Sanjiv Sidhu, a current director and former Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, and entities that he controls. Further, R2 Top Hat, Ltd., an affiliate of Q Investments, beneficially controls approximately 17.7% of the voting power of the Company, and has the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors (which it exercised in 2007). In addition, BlackRock, Inc. beneficially controls approximately 8.8%, Renaissance Technologies LLC beneficially controls approximately 6.1%, S.A.C. Capital Advisors, L.P. beneficially controls approximately 5.6%, Water Island Capital LLC beneficially controls approximately 5.3% and Highbridge International LLC beneficially controls approximately 4.6% of the voting power of the Company. Accordingly, Mr. Sidhu, R2 Top Hat, Ltd. (the Q Investments affiliate), BlackRock Advisors, Renaissance International, S.A.C. Capital Advisors, L.P. and Highbridge International have had and will continue to have significant influence in determining the composition of our Board of Directors and other significant matters requiring stockholder approval or acquiescence, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a substantial sale of assets, a merger or similar corporate transaction or a non-negotiated takeover attempt. Such concentration of ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making an offer to buy our company that other stockholders might find favorable, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Mr. Sidhu has announced that he does not intend to stand for re-election at our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. In addition, David L. Pope, one of the appointees of R2 Top Hat, Ltd., has announced that he intends to resign as a director following our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; however, R2 Top Hat, Ltd. has the right to fill such position at any time. 20 Table of Contents Our Charter And Bylaws Have Anti-Takeover Provisions And We Have A Stockholder Rights Plan Which, In Combination, Effectively Inhibit A Non-Negotiated Merger Or Business Combination. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation (including change of control provisions in the Certificate of Designations for our Series B Preferred Stock) and provisions of our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 