Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business and financial performance depend on the level of activity in the natural gas and oil industries. Our operations are materially dependent upon the levels of activity in natural gas and oil exploration, development and production. More specifically, the demand for our products is closely related to the number of natural gas and oil wells completed in geologic formations where ceramic proppants are used in fracture treatments. These activity levels are affected by both short-term and long-term trends in natural gas and oil prices. In recent years, natural gas and oil prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, have experienced significant fluctuations. Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by OPEC, have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price volatility. Additionally, warmer than normal winters in North America and other weather patterns may adversely impact the short-term demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for our products and services. Natural gas prices experienced a significant decline during 2011, and some companies have announced their intention to reduce drilling activity for natural gas. A prolonged reduction in natural gas and oil prices would generally depress the level of natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and well completions activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if the levels of hydraulic fracturing decrease or cease as a result of the development of new processes, increased regulation or a decrease in horizontal drilling activity. Substantially all of our products are proppants used in the completion and re-completion of natural gas and oil wells through the process of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, demand for our proppants is substantially higher in the case of horizontally drilled wells, which allow for multiple hydraulic fractures within the same well bore but are more expensive to develop than vertically drilled wells. A reduction in horizontal drilling or the development of new processes for the completion of natural gas and oil wells leading to a reduction in, or discontinuation of the use of, hydraulic fracturing could cause a decline in demand for our products. Additionally, increased regulation or environmental restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the materials used in this process could negatively affect our business by increasing the costs of compliance or resulting in operational delays, which could cause operators to abandon the process due to commercial impracticability. Moreover, it is possible that future federal, state or foreign laws or regulations could otherwise limit or ban hydraulic fracturing. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by decreased demand for our proppant or the development by our competitors of effective alternative proppants. Ceramic proppant is a premium product capable of withstanding higher pressure and providing more highly conductive fractures than mined sand, which is the most commonly used proppant type. Although we believe that the use of ceramic proppant or resin-coated sand generates higher production rates and more favorable production economics than mined sand, a significant shift in demand from ceramic proppant or resin-coated sand 10 Table of Contents to mined sand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development and use of effective alternative proppant could also cause a decline in demand for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon, and receive a significant percentage of our revenues from, a limited number of key customers. During 2011, our key customers included several of the largest participants in the worldwide petroleum pressure pumping industry. Although the end users of our products are numerous operators of natural gas and oil wells that hire pressure pumping service companies to hydraulically fracture wells, two customers accounted collectively for approximately 48% of our 2011 revenues. We generally supply our domestic pumping service customers with products on a just-in-time basis, with transactions governed by individual purchase orders. Continuing sales of product depend on our direct customers and the end user well operators being satisfied with product quality, availability and delivery performance. Although we believe our relations with our customers and the major well operators are satisfactory, a material decline in the level of sales to any one of our major customers due to unsatisfactory product performance, delivery delays or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face underdeveloped transportation systems in key resource plays we serve As oil and natural gas prices fluctuate, our customers may shift their focus back and forth between different resource plays, some of which can be located in geographic areas of the country, that do not have well-developed transportation and distribution infrastructure systems. Therefore, serving our clients on a just in time basis presents operational challenges that could affect our sales. Failure to find solutions to these logistical challenges could adversely affect our ability to respond quickly to the needs of our customers and could negatively impact our financials. The operations of our customers are subject to a number of operational risks and interruptions and seasonal variations, including inclement weather. As hydraulic fracturing jobs have increased in size and intensity, common issues such as weather, equipment delays or changes in the location and types of oil and natural gas plays can result in increased variability in proppant sales volumes. Our business operations and those of our customers involve a high degree of operational risk. Natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, collisions and operator error could cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, equipment and the environment, and suspension of operations. Our customers perform work that is subject to unexpected or arbitrary interruption or termination. The occurrence of any of these events could result in work stoppage, loss of revenue, casualty loss, increased costs and significant liability to third parties. We have not historically considered seasonality to be a significant risk, but with the increase in resource plays in the northern and eastern United States as well as our operations in Marshfield, Wisconsin, our results of operations are exposed to seasonal variations and inclement weather. Operations in these regions involve more seasonal risk in the winter months, and work is hindered during other inclement weather events. The ability of our customers to complete work, as well as our ability to mine sand from cold climate areas, could be affected during the winter months. Our revenue and profitability could decrease during these periods and in other severe weather conditions because work is either prevented or more costly to complete. If a substantial amount of production is interrupted, our cash flow and, in turn, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We provide environmental warranties on certain of our containment and spill prevention products. Falcon Technologies’ tank liners, secondary containments and related products and services are designed to contain or avoid spills of hydrocarbons and other materials. If a release of these materials occurs, it could be harmful to the environment. Although we attempt to negotiate appropriate limitations of liability in the applicable terms of sale, some customers have required expanded warranties, indemnifications or other terms that could 11 Table of Contents hold Falcon Technologies responsible in the event of a spill or release under particular circumstances. If Falcon Technologies is held responsible for a spill or release of materials from one of its customer’s facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. The Company uses a significant amount of trade secrets, or “know-how,” and other proprietary information and technology in the conduct of its business. Although the Company does not believe that it is infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others by using such proprietary information and technology, it is possible that such a claim will be asserted against the Company in the future. In the event any third party makes a claim against us for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of a third party, such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. In addition, the Company could experience loss or cancellation of customer orders, experience product shipment delays, or be subject to significant liabilities to third parties. If our products or services were found to infringe on a third party’s proprietary rights, the Company could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to continue selling its products or services. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which could seriously harm our business. Involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and expertise could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. We operate in an increasingly competitive market. We compete with other principal suppliers of ceramic proppant, as well as with suppliers of sand and resin-coated sand for use as proppant, in the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and oil wells. The proppant market is highly competitive and no one supplier is dominant. The expiration of key patents owned by the Company in 2006 and 2009 has resulted in additional competition in the market for ceramic proppant. This entry of additional competitors into the market to supply ceramic proppant could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of natural gas are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside of our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Natural gas is a significant component of our direct manufacturing costs and price escalations will likely increase our operating expenses and can have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We operate in a competitive marketplace and may not be able to pass through all of the increased costs that could result from an increase in the cost of natural gas. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. The technical requirements of complying with these environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive and complex, and may affect the Company’s ability to expand its operations. Our ability to continue the expansion of our manufacturing capacity to meet market demand is contingent upon obtaining required environmental permits and compliance with their terms, which continue to be more restrictive and require longer lead times to obtain in anticipation of any efforts to expand and increase capacity. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we use some hazardous substances and generate certain industrial wastes in our operations. Many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated 12 Table of Contents properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. These laws also may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. Stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could restrict our expansion efforts, require us to incur costs, or become the basis of new or increased liabilities. Any of these events could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. International revenues accounted for approximately 21%, 23% and 24% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We may not succeed in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays and costs; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • currency rate fluctuations, convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to risks associated with our production facilities in Luoyang, China, and Kopeysk, Russia. The legal systems in both China and Russia are still developing and are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in both countries could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of each country’s law. Further, if manufacturing in either region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales and/or profitability could be negatively impacted. The manufacture of resin-coated sand is a new process for us. Resin-coated sand is an alternative to the Company’s traditional ceramic proppant and involves a different manufacturing process that utilizes a different raw material. The expansion of our resin-coated sand operations involves capital expenditures and new operational requirements. If we are unable to secure adequate, cost effective supply commitments for the raw materials associated with resin-coated sand or if we are unable to successfully and efficiently construct the needed additional manufacturing capacity and infrastructure to produce resin-coated sand, our ability to sell this product to the marketplace at profitable margins may be adversely impacted. A lack of sales of resin-coated sand or the inability to control the costs associated with manufacturing this product could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Undetected defects in our fracture simulation software could adversely affect our business. Despite extensive testing, our software could contain defects, bugs or performance problems. If any of these problems are not detected, the Company could be required to incur extensive development costs or costs related to product recalls or replacements. The existence of any defects, errors or failures in our software products may subject us to liability for damages, delay the development or release of new products and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our software products or related services, any one of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly. The market price of the Company’s common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly, in response to various factors and events, including the following: • the liquidity of the market for our common stock; • differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • new statutes or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing statutes and regulations affecting our business; • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • broad market fluctuations. Our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements we make. Some of the statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to trends in the natural gas and oil industries, the demand for ceramic proppant and our performance in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” sections of this Form 10-K. In addition, we have made and may continue to make forward-looking statements in other filings with the SEC, and in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. (See “Business–Forward-Looking Information.”) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 