RISK FACTORS The Company cautions readers that its business is subject to a number of risks, any of which could cause the actual results of the Company to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made from time to time in releases, including this Form 10-K, and oral statements. Certain risk factors are presented throughout this document, including, among others, business strategy; site selection; attracting and retaining franchisees, managers and other employees; availability of food products; competition; and government regulation. Certain other risks to which the Company is subject include: SEASONAL FLUCTUATIONS IN SALES AND EARNINGS AFFECT THE COMPANY'S QUARTERLY RESULTS. The Company's sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. Historically the Company's highest sales and earnings have occurred in the second and third calendar quarters, which the Company believes is typical of the restaurant industry and consumer spending patterns in general. In addition, quarterly results have been and, in the future are likely to be, substantially affected by the timing of new restaurant openings. Because of the seasonality of the Company's business and the impact of new restaurant openings, results for any calendar quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year and cannot be used to indicate financial performance for the entire year. INFLATION MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT NET INCOME. The Company believes that inflation impacted net income during fiscal year 2004. Substantial increases in utility expenses and certain food costs items had a marked impact on the Company's operating results to the extent such increases could not be passed along to customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience the same inflationary impact in the future. If operating expenses increase, management intends to attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices to the extent deemed advisable in light of competitive conditions. AN INCREASE IN INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT NET INCOME. Our exposure to interest rate fluctuations is limited to our outstanding bank debt with Bank of America. The interest rate is either the prime rate or LIBOR plus a stipulated percentage. Accordingly, the Company is impacted by changes in the prime rate and LIBOR. As of January 2, 2005, the Company had $4.0 million outstanding on the credit facility with Bank of America. The Company is in full compliance with all debt covenants as amended. The Company expects to be in compliance with all debt covenants in fiscal year 2005. As of January 2, 2005, the Company also had $3.0 million in notes which have a fixed interest rate of 7.0% (See Footnote 3 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements). THE COMPANY'S SMALL RESTAURANT BASE AND GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION MAKES ITS OPERATIONS MORE SUSCEPTIBLE TO LOCAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. The results achieved to date by the Company's relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area. Because of the Company's relatively small restaurant base, an unsuccessful new restaurant could have a more significant effect on the Company's results of operations than would be the case in a company owning more restaurants. Additionally, given the Company's present geographic concentration (all Company-owned units are currently in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Michigan), results of operations may be adversely affected by economic or other conditions in the region and any adverse publicity in the region relating to the Company's restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on the Company's overall sales than might be the case if the Company's restaurants were more broadly dispersed. THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL COVENANTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO BORROW. Under the Company's current credit agreement, it is subject to certain reporting requirements and financial covenants, including requirements that it maintain minimum levels of net worth and various financial ratios. Although it is currently in compliance with such financial covenants, an erosion of the Company's business could place the Company out of compliance in future periods. Potential remedies for the lender if the Company is not in compliance include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens; however, in the event of any future noncompliance the Company may seek a waiver from such lender. See Note 3, Long-term Debt, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. THE COMPANY'S MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTORS HOLD A MAJORITY OF THE COMMON STOCK. Approximately 57.6% of the Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock of the Company are beneficially owned or held by Larry N. Forehand, David Nierenberg, Michael D. Domec and Louis P. Neeb, directors and/or executive officers of the Company. As a result, these individuals have substantial control over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. COMPETITION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. The Company competes within each market against other family dining concepts, as well as quick service and casual dining concepts, for customers, employees and franchisees. Several of the Company's competitors operate more restaurants and have significantly greater financial resources and longer operating histories than the Company. The Company's inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in its 8 markets could prevent it from increasing or sustaining its revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. CHANGES IN GENERAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS AFFECT CONSUMER SPENDING AND MAY HARM THE COMPANY'S REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS. The United States experienced an economic expansion throughout most of 2004, especially in Texas where the majority of the Company's restaurants operate. Although the forecast for 2005 is generally favorable, there remain a few significant economic developments that could weaken economic conditions. Rising fuel and energy costs could reduce consumers' level of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which the Company's customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing the Company's revenues. Additionally, the continued responses to the terrorist attacks on the United States, possible future terrorist attacks and the conflict in Iraq and its aftermath may exacerbate current economic conditions and lead to a weakening in the economy. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in discretionary spending by the Company's customers could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating results. RISING INSURANCE COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT PROFITABILITY. The Company insures itself against a variety of uncertainties. While the cost of certain insurance coverages increased in 2004, the Company was able to negotiate lower premium costs for other insurance coverages, and in general, was able to minimize the overall increase and impact of all total insurance costs to the Company. Each year the Company renews its insurance coverages. While the Company is proactive in its efforts to control insurance costs, market forces beyond the Company's control may thwart the Company's ability to manage these costs. An increase in premiums could have a negative impact on the Company's profitability if it is not able to negate the effect of such increases by continuing to improve its operating efficiencies. IMPLEMENTING THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGY MAY STRAIN ITS RESOURCES. The Company's ability to expand by adding Company-owned and franchised restaurants will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management and hourly employees, the availability of acceptable lease terms and adequate financing, timely construction of restaurants, the ability to obtain various government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond the control of the Company and its franchisees. The opening of additional franchised restaurants will depend, in part, upon the ability of existing and future franchisees to obtain financing or investment capital adequate to meet their market development obligations. Based on the Company's experience in attempting to grow outside its existing markets, the Company has found there can be limited consumer acceptance and that the cost of such efforts can have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial results. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE STOCK PRICE. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. In connection with its 1996 initial public offering, the Company granted limited registration rights to holders of warrants granted by the Company and Larry N. Forehand to Louis P. Neeb, Tex-Mex Partners, L.C. and a former officer of the Company to register the 757,465 underlying shares of Common Stock subject to such warrants in connection with registrations otherwise undertaken by the Company. Such warrants have an exercise price of $10.90 per share. If the Company registers these shares and these shareholders sell a large portion of their holdings on the open market at one time, the market price of the Common Stock will likely decline. In any event, the market price of the Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to the Company's operating results and other factors. LITIGATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. The Company is from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. The Company may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether it is liable. The Company is also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the Company that could have a materially adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to state "dramshop" laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Although the Company carries liquor liability coverage as part of its existing comprehensive general liability insurance, it may still be subject to a judgment in excess of its insurance coverage and it may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. COMPLIANCE WITH CHANGING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSES. Keeping up to date and in compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. The Company remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company intends to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. OTHER RISKS, UNKNOWN OR IMMATERIAL TODAY, MAY BECOME KNOWN OR MATERIAL IN THE FUTURE. The Company has attempted to identify certain material risks currently affecting it. However, additional risks that the Company does not yet know of, that are not described herein, or that it currently believes are immaterial, may occur or become material. These risks could impair the Company's business operations or adversely affect its results of operations. 9 