ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and these factors are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties. Changes in General Economic and Political Conditions Affect Consumer Spending and May Harm Our Revenues and Operating Results. With a few exceptions, most of the restaurant industry’s casual dining segment experienced a slow down or negative same-store sales and tighter profit margins in 2009. The forecast for 2010 continues to be cautious, calling for a continuation of the current economic recession. A few economic conditions that could impact the economy and our operating results are: high unemployment; the economic recession and the subsequent decline in household wealth could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending; and a decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our cust omers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues. A return to rising fuel and energy costs could reduce consumers’ level of discretionary spending. Additionally, the continued responses to the terrorist attacks on the United States, possible future terrorist attacks and the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and their aftermath may exacerbate current economic conditions and lead to a further weakening in the economy. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in discretionary spending by our customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our Small Restaurant Base and Geographic Concentration Make Our Operations More Susceptible to Local Economic Conditions and the Economic Downturn May Adversely Impact Our Results. The results achieved to date by our relatively small restaurant base may not be indicative of the results of a larger number of restaurants in a more geographically dispersed area. Because of our relatively small restaurant base, an unsuccessful new restaurant could have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case in a company owning more restaurants. Additionally, given our present geographic concentration (all of our company-owned units are currently in Texas, especially along the Gulf Coast region, and in Oklahoma and Louisiana), results of operations may be adversely affected by economic or other conditions in the region, such as hurricanes, and any adverse publicity in the region relating to its restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall sales than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. Also, the ongoing economic downturn could result in continued material decreases in discretionary spending by consumers, which in turn could continue to materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural Disasters such as Hurricanes May Adversely Impact Our Net Income. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as fires or hurricanes could unfavorably affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our restaurants; the temporary or permanent closure of one or more of our restaurants or corporate office; the temporary lack of an adequate work force in an affected geographical trade area; the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of food, beverages, beer and other products to our restaurants; the temporary disruption of electric, water, sewer and waste disposal services necessary for our restaurants to operate; and/or, the temporary reduction in the availability of certain products in our restaurants. 11 Cost Pressures May Adversely Impact Our Net Income. We believe that certain cost pressures impacted net income during fiscal year 2008 that did not impact fiscal year 2009. In fiscal year 2008, substantial increases in food commodity prices, utilities and group health insurance had a marked impact on our operating results to the extent such increases could not be passed along to customers. In fiscal year 2009, we showed comparative improvements in each of these costs. In fiscal year 2009, rapidly declining same-store sales had a greater impact on our operating results to the extent that certain fixed costs and semi-fixed costs were more difficult to cover. There can be no assurance that we will not experience similar cost pressures or declining same-store sales pressures in fiscal year 2010. If operating expenses increase, our management intends to attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices to the extent deemed advisable in light of competitive conditions. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage increased from $5.85 to $6.55 per hour and then to $7.25 per hour on July 24, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We estimated that the increase in the federal minimum wage impacted our labor cost by approximately $2,000 per week in fiscal year 2008 and $4,300 per week in fiscal year 2009. To the extent that we cannot increase menu prices or reduce labor hours worked, the minimum wage increases will continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operat ions and cash flows. Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our produce, which is purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Ben E. Keith Company as the primary distributor of our ingredients. Ben E. Keith Company is a privately held corporation that is part of a cooperative of independent food distributors (Unipro) located throughout the nation. We have an exclusive contract with Ben E. Keith Company on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Any increase in distribution pri ces by Ben E. Keith Company could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Rising Insurance Costs Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. We are insured against a variety of uncertainties. We also provided group health insurance to certain of our employees and cover approximately 65% of the cost. While the cost of certain insurance coverages increased in 2009, we were able to negotiate lower premium costs for other insurance coverages, and in general, were able to minimize the overall increase and impact of all total insurance costs to the Company. For example, while an increase in property and casualty premiums had an adverse impact on our profitability in fiscal year 2009, the decrease in group health insurance costs had a positive impact on our profitability in fiscal year 2009. Each year, we renew our insurance coverages. Although we try to be proactive in our efforts to control insurance costs, market forces beyond our control may thwart our ability to manage these costs. We expect insurance premiums for property and casualty insurance to increase slightly in fiscal year 2010. The direction of costs for our group health insurance depends, in part, on the usage of the plan by plan participants. Health Concerns such as H1N1 Viruses May Adversely Impact Our Profitability. The United States and other countries have experienced, or may experience in the future, outbreaks of viruses, such as norovirus, Avian Flue or ‘SARS,’ and H1N1 or “swine flu”, or other diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known as “mad cow disease.” To the extent that a virus or disease is food-borne, or perceived to be food-borne, future outbreaks may adversely affect the price and availability of certain food products and cause our guests to eat less of a product. For example, health concerns relating to the consumption of beef or to specific events such as the outbreak of “mad cow dis ease” may adversely impact sales of our beef-related menu items. In addition, public concern over “avian flu” may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry. The inability to serve beef or poultry-based products would restrict our ability to provide a variety of menu items to our guests. If we change our menu in response to such concerns, we may lose guests who do not prefer the new menu, and we may not be able to attract new guests to produce the revenue needed to restore the profitability of our restaurant operations. We also may generate different or additional competitors for our intended guests as a result of such a menu change and may not be able to successfully compete against such competitors. If a virus is transmitted by human contact, our employees or guests could become infected, or could choose, or be advised, to avoid gathering in public places, any of which could adversely aff ect our restaurant guest traffic and our ability to adequately staff our restaurants, receive deliveries on a timely basis or perform functions at the corporate level. We also could be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may adversely affect our business. 12 A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. Seasonal Fluctuations in Sales and Earnings Affect Our Quarterly Results. Our sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. Historically, our highest sales and earnings have occurred in the second and third calendar quarters, which we believe is typical of the restaurant industry and consumer spending patterns in general. In addition, quarterly results have been and, in the future are likely to be, substantially affected by the timing of new restaurant openings and the positive or negative direction of same-store sales. Because of the seasonality of our business, the impact of new restaurant openings and direction of same-store sales, results for any calendar quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year and cannot be used to indicate financial performance for the entire year. An Increase In Our Interest Rates May Adversely Impact Net Income. We are subject to interest rate fluctuations under the terms of our outstanding bank debt with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The interest rate is either the prime rate or LIBOR plus a stipulated percentage. Accordingly, we are impacted by changes in the prime rate and LIBOR. As of March 29, 2010, we had $5.2 million outstanding on our credit facility with Wells Fargo. Our Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Borrow. Under the Wells Fargo Agreement, we are required to maintain certain leverage ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Although we are currently in compliance with such financial covenants as amended, an erosion of our business could place us out of compliance in future periods. Potential remedies for the lender if we are not in compliance include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens. See “Note 3, Long-term Debt, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Stateme nts”. Our Access to Capital and/or Financing May Not Be Available When Needed. Our ability to continue to successfully grow our business depends, in part, on the availability of adequate capital to finance the development of additional new restaurants and other growth-related expenses. Changes in our operating plans, acceleration of our expansion plans, a decision to acquire another restaurant concept, lower than anticipated revenues, unanticipated and/or uncontrollable events in the capital or credit markets that impact our liquidity, lower than anticipated tenant improvement allowances offered by landlords, increased expenses or other events, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis in the event our cash flow from operations is insufficient. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could adversely affect our growth and other plans, as well as our financial condition. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. In addition, continued disruptions in the global credit and equity markets, including unanticipated and/or uncontrollable events in the capital or credit markets, may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to raise additional capital if and when required. Our Ability to Modify and/or Extend Lease Terms At Rates Reasonable To The Company Could Adversely Affect Our Profitability. As of March 29, 2010, all 55 of our company-owned restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent, subject to regional cost-of-living increases, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, many leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. We currently have no restaurant leases that will expire during the next 12 months. 60; While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, no guarantee can be given that such leases will be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their leased locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current leased locations may or may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in surrounding areas could result in reduced revenues in those locations. In addition, desirable leased locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation. 13 Competition May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market against other family dining concepts, as well as quick service and casual dining concepts, for customers, employees and franchisees. Several of our competitors operate more restaurants and have significantly greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets, this could prevent us from increa sing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Management and Directors Hold a Majority of the Common Stock. Approximately 64.8% of our Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock are beneficially owned or held by Michael D. Domec, Larry N. Forehand, and Louis P. Neeb, directors and/or executive officers or affiliates thereof. As a result, these individuals have substantial control over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Shares Eligible for Future Sale Could Adversely Impact the Stock Price. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In any event, the market price of the Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. From time to time, we are the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether the Company is liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to state “dramshop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Although we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Implementing Our Growth Strategy May Strain Our Resources. Our ability to expand by adding Company-owned and franchised restaurants will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management and hourly employees, the availability of acceptable lease terms and adequate financing, timely construction of restaurants, the ability to obtain various government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to open our planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses. Keeping up-to-date and in compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. 14 Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. We compete on the basis of the taste, quality and price of food offered, guest service, brand name identification, attractiveness of the facilities, restaurant location, atmosphere and overall dining experience. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets to well-capitalized national restaurant companies. In addition, we compete with other restaurants and with retail establishments for real estate. We also compete within each of our trade areas with national and regional rest aurant chains and locally-owned restaurants. We also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes from the deli section. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result of the currently weak economy, restaurant consumers are more highly focused on value. If other restaurants are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of perceived value through heavy discounting or other methods, our guest traffic levels may suffer which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, with improving product offerings at “fast-casual” restaurants, quick-service restaurants and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect our financial results. We believe that we have built a favorable reputation for the quality and differentiation of our restaurant concept. We also believe that we must continue to re-invest in our core established restaurant operations to further protect and grow the overall consumer “value” of our concept so that it will continue to be relevant in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in, or their attraction to, our concept could significantly reduce its value. If consumers perceive or experience any material reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we materially failed to deliver a consistently positive dining experience, the consumer “value” of our concept could suffer. Negative publicity about us, our restaurants, other restaurants, others across the food supply chain, or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry/produce, beer or alcoholic beverages, whether or not accurate, could adversely affect the reputation and popularity of our restaurants and our results of operations. The good reputation of our restaurants is a key factor to the success of our business. Incidents that occur at any of our restaurants, or at restaurants operated by other food service providers or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall, may specifically harm our brand and reputation and may quickly result in negative publicity for us, which could adversely affect our reputation and popularity with our guests. In addition, negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, food tampering or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants, to the restaurant industry in general, or to the beef, seafood, poultry or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning the accumulation of carcinogens in seafood, e-coli, hepatitis A, avian flu, salmonella, and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could adversely affect sales for all of our restaurants and make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. If our restaurant guests or employees become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close the affected restaurants. Failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, trade secrets or other intellectual property could adversely affect our business. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of our brands. We believe our trademarks, service marks and trade dress have significant value and are important to our marketing efforts. We have registered the trademarks for “Casa Olé”, “Casa Olé Mexican Restaurant”, “Monterey’s Tex-Mex Café”, “Monterey’s Little Mexico”, “Tortuga Cantina” and “Crazy Jose’s.” We have a federal registration for Mission Burrit os Fresh Food Fast & design and a pending federal application for Mission Burrito More Choices. More Flavor. & design. We also have a Texas state registration for the wordmark Mission Burritos. Our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets or other intellectual property could be imitated or appropriated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our trademarks, service marks or trade dress or not operate in a certain geographic region or regions if our names are deemed confusingly similar to their prior trademarks, service marks or trade dress. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our employees or suppliers. Moreover, even with respect to the confidentiality and non-competition agreements we have, we cannot assure that those agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. 15 Failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statem ents would be prevented or detected. Should we identify a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses that may be identified in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 