Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders might lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of Xifaxan and our other marketed products might be less than expected. We currently actively market and sell seven primary products. We expect Xifaxan, which was launched in mid-2004 for the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, and approved and launched in March 2010 for the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy, or HE, to continue to be our most significant source of revenue in the future. If sales of our marketed products decline or if we experience product returns significantly in excess of estimated amounts recorded, particularly with respect to Xifaxan, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community will depend upon a number of factors including: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, and including any generic or over-the-counter competitors; • perceptions by physicians and other members of the healthcare community regarding the safety and efficacy of the products; • price increases, and the price of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • patient and physician demand; • adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or other drugs in our class; • the results of product development efforts for new indications; • the scope and timing of additional marketing approvals and favorable reimbursement programs for expanded uses; • availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the products; and • our success in getting other companies to distribute our products outside of the U.S. gastroenterology, hepatology and colorectal surgery markets. 26 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our products. Development of our products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In early 2008, the FDA announced that because of its large workload it might not meet its target dates to respond to NDA submissions, and since then we have experienced delays in FDA review of Metozolv, balsalazide tablets, crofelemer, rifaximin for HE and Relistor for chronic pain. This regulation and workload could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell our product candidates, including specifically rifaximin for irritable bowel syndrome, or IBS. In August 2010, the FDA accepted our NDA for rifaximin for IBS, and gave us an action date of December 7, 2010. In October 2010 the FDA informed us they were extending the action date by three months to provide for a full review and extended our action date to March 7, 2011. We received a Complete Response Letter, or CRL, on March 7, 2011. The FDA issues a CRL to indicate that the review cycle for an application is complete and that the application is not ready for approval. The FDA deems that the Xifaxan 550 mg sNDA is not ready for approval, primarily due to a newly expressed need for retreatment information. We initiated enrollment in a retreatment trial in the first quarter of 2012, but there is no assurance that the FDA will approve rifaximin for IBS in a timely manner, or at all. On July 27, 2012, the FDA issued a CRL following the FDA’s review of a Supplemental New Drug Application for Relistor injection for subcutaneous use for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. The CRL requests additional clinical data. In October 2012 Salix and Progenics held an End-of-Review meeting with the Division of Gastroenterology and Inborn Errors Products to better understand the contents of the CRL. Based on the results of this meeting, we believe we might terminate our development program for methylnaltrexone bromide injection for subcutaneous use for the treatment of OIC in chronic non-cancer pain. We are currently evaluating the oral OIC development program and currently believe we will continue this program. However, additional information and additional guidance from the FDA could result in the termination of the oral OIC development program. There is no assurance the FDA will approve Relistor injection for oral use for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain in a timely manner, or at all. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: • the drug is not effective; • patients experience severe side effects during treatment; • patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected, as was the case with our Xifaxan Phase 3 trial in Thailand for the prevention of travelers’ diarrhea, and might be the case with our Xifaxan irritable bowel syndrome retreatment study; • drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or • we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. For example, rifaximin has been approved for treatment of travelers’ diarrhea and HE, but we are developing rifaximin for IBS and other indications. The FDA might not ever approve any of our compounds in the indications we are pursuing, which would mean we cannot market these compounds for use in these indications. Regulatory approvals, even if granted, might entail ongoing requirements or restrictions on marketing. These requirements or restrictions, or inquiries into our marketing practices, could increase our expenses and limit revenue. Regulatory approvals might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or limit how or to whom we can sell our products. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and other federal and state authorities. For example, in 2008 the FDA required us to put a “black box” warning on the OsmoPrep and Visicol labels regarding potential kidney damage that could result from 27 Table of Contents their use, and a “black box” warning for Metozolv regarding tardive dyskensia which could result from its use. We believe these warnings contributed to reduced sales of those products, and they could limit future sales of those products. In addition, we periodically receive inquiries from authorities, including specifically the Office of Prescription Drug Promotion of the FDA, or OPDP, formerly known as the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications of the FDA, or DDMAC, regarding compliance with marketing and other regulations. Responding to inquiries from authorities can be costly and divert the time and attention of our senior management away from our business operations and result in increased legal expenses. On February 1, 2013, our wholly owned subsidiary Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents regarding our sales and promotional practices for Xifaxan® (rifaximin), Relistor® (methyinaltrexone bromide) and Apriso® (mesalamine). The Company is in the process of responding to the subpoena and intends to cooperate fully with the subpoena and related government investigation. Currently, we cannot predict or determine the timing or outcome of this inquiry or its impact on financial condition or results of operations. The laws and regulations regarding off-label promotion and the authorities’ interpretation of them might increase our expenses, impair our ability to effectively market our products, and limit our revenue. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection. The intellectual property rights protecting our products might not afford us with meaningful protection from generic and other competition. In addition, because our strategy is to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products which typically have been discovered and initially researched by others, future products might have limited or no remaining patent protection due to the time elapsed since their discovery. Competitors could also design around any of our intellectual property or otherwise design competitive products that do not infringe our intellectual property. Any litigation in which we become involved to enforce intellectual property rights could result in substantial cost to us. In addition, claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could be costly. Our patent or other proprietary rights related to our products might conflict with the current or future intellectual property rights of others. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, might be necessary to defend any patents to which we have rights and our other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of patent and intellectual property claims is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling one or more of our products. We might not be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology that we require to conduct our business, or, if obtainable, that technology might not be available at a reasonable cost. Upon patent expiration, our drugs could be subject to generic competition, which could negatively affect our pricing and sales volume. As previously disclosed, this has already happened to Colazal, which had been our largest selling drug prior to 2008. 28 Table of Contents The patents for the rifaximin composition of matter (also covering a process of making rifaximin and using rifaximin to treat gastrointestinal infectious diseases) expired in May 2001 in the United States and Canada. Rifaximin was a new chemical entity and was granted a five-year new chemical exclusivity by the FDA when it was approved in May 2004. Rifaximin, therefore, had data exclusivity to May 2009. Rifaximin 550mg, which is approved for the reduction in risk of HE recurrence in patients greater than 18 years of age was granted orphan exclusivity through March 2017. Patents covering several physical states, or polymorphic forms, of rifaximin that provide protection for all indications currently marketed and being assessed are listed below in the table. Alfa Wasserman S.p.a., the owner of the indicated patents, has licensed the rights to Salix in the United States. In July 2006, Salix entered into an agreement with Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, or CSMC, for the right to use its patent and patent applications relating to methods of diagnosis and treating irritable bowel syndrome and other disorders caused by small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. The CSMC agreement provides Salix the right to use the patents listed below as well as other members of the patent family indicated as licensed from CSMC. On April 19, 2011, the USPTO issued the method of treatment patent U.S. 7,928,115 to Salix directed to the use of rifaximin in Travelers’ Diarrhea, which should provide protection until July 2029. In November 2012, the USPTO issued an additional patent coving methods of using rifaximin to treat IBS, which should provide protection until July 2029. U.S. Patent No. Issue Date Expiration Subject 7,045,620* May-06 Jun-24 Composition of matter and process patent covering several physical states of rifaximin 7,612,199* Nov-09 Jun-24 Covers several physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin 7,906,542* May-11 Jun-25 Covers several physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin in pharmaceutical formulations 7,902,206* Mar-11 Jun-24 Covers several physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin 7,452,857** Nov-08 Aug-19 Use of rifaximin for treating irritable bowel syndrome 7,605,240** Oct-09 Aug-19 Treatment of bloating caused by small intestinal bacterial overgrowth associated with irritable bowel syndrome 7,718,608** May-10 Aug-19 Use of rifaximin for treating irritable bowel syndrome 7,935,799** May-11 Aug-19 Use of rifaximin for treating diarrhea 7,928,115 Apr-11 Jul-29 Use of rifaximin for treating travelers’ diarrhea 8,158,781* Apr-12 Jun-24 Covers physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin 8,158,644* Apr-12 Jun-24 Covers physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin 8,193,196* Jun-12 Sept-27 Covers physical states, or polymorphous forms of rifaximin 8,309,569 Nov-12 Jul-29 Use of rifaximin for treating IBS * Licensed from Alfa Wasserman S.p.a. ** Licensed from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center The patent for the treatment of the intestinal tract with Apriso, the granulated mesalamine product, provides patent coverage to 2018. In June 2009, U.S. Patent No. 7,547,451 issued, which relates to methods of producing Apriso and provides further protection. In September 2012 the FDA posted draft guidance on mesalamine. The guidance recommends conducting fed and fasted pK studies measuring mesalamine in the plasma of normal healthy subjects as well as an in vitro comparative dissolution study. On September 7, 2012, we and Dr. Falk Pharma filed a patent infringement complaint against Lupin Ltd. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the District of Delaware. The Complaint alleges infringement of U. S. Patent No. 6,551,620, or the 620 patent, based on Lupin’s filing of an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, seeking approval to market and sell a generic version of Apriso before the expiration of the 620 patent. The filing of this suit within the 45 day response period provided by the Hatch Waxman Act imposes an automatic 30 month stay of approval of Lupin’s ANDA. We continue to evaluate our intellectual property protecting Apriso in which we have full confidence. We intend to vigorously enforce its intellectual property rights. In December 2012 the USPTO issued US Patent No. 8,337,886, or the ‘886 patent, which will provide further protection for the Apriso formulation as well as methods of using Apriso until 2018. In February 2013 we received a certification letter to the ‘886 patent from Lupin. We intend to vigorously enforce our rights in the ‘886 patent. 29 Table of Contents The patent application relating to the dosage form for metoclopramide protects the product until July 2017. The patent for crofelemer, relating to enteric formulations and uses thereof provide protection until 2018 and should be entitled to patent term restoration as a new molecular entity. There is no assurance that these patents or the patent term restorations will be issued or granted, respectively. The patent for balsalazide 1100 mg tablets provides patent coverage to 2018. U.S. Patent Nos. 7,452,872 and 7,625,884, which relate to the use of balsalazide tablets to increase the bioavailability provide coverage for balsalazide 1100 mg tablets until August 2026. The budesonide rectal foam product has patent coverage in the U.S. until 2015. Patent expiration dates listed herein, unless otherwise noted, are for U.S. patents and assume there are no patent term adjustments, extensions or other adverse events that could affect the term or scope of a patent. Dates provided herein for the expiration of patent applications are merely estimates based on knowledge at this time and could be altered, for example, by terminal disclaimer or if patent term extensions or adjustments are available. The patents for Lumacan including, U.S. 6,034,267 and U.S. 7,247,655 provide protection until March 2016. In January 2007, the USPTO issued a patent covering composition of matter and kit claims for MoviPrep. The MoviPrep patent provides coverage to September 2024. Norgine, B.V. and Norgine Europe, B.V., which we refer to collectively as Norgine, own U.S. Patent No. 7,169,381, or the ‘381 patent. The ‘381 patent is listed with the FDA as protecting our MoviPrep product. Norgine licensed MoviPrep and the ‘381 patent to the Company for commercialization in the United States. Novel filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of MoviPrep in the United States prior to the September 2024 expiration of the ‘381 patent. On May 14, 2008, we and Norgine filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Novel for infringement of the ‘381 patent. Upon entry by the court on August 30, 2010 of a Consent Judgment included as an exhibit to the Settlement Agreement among the parties and Actavis, Inc., the settlement will resolve all of the parties’ outstanding claims and defenses in the lawsuit. The Consent Judgment provides that Novel’s proposed generic product, absent a license as granted to Novel under the settlement, would infringe the ‘381 patent and further provides that Novel acknowledges and agrees not to contest the validity and enforceability of the ‘381 patent. In addition to the Settlement Agreement, we have entered into a Sublicense Agreement with Norgine and Novel, as well as a Supply Agreement with Novel and Actavis and a First Amendment to License and Supply Agreement with Norgine. Under the terms of the Sublicense Agreement, we and Norgine have granted Novel a fully paid up license under the MoviPrep patents such that it is permitted to launch a generic MoviPrep product on September 24, 2018. The patent for Visicol and OsmoPrep will expire in 2013. U.S. 7,687,075 issued 30 March 2010 and provides protection for OsmoPrep until June 2028. CDC III, LLC, owns U.S. Patent No. 5,616,346, or the ‘346 patent. The ‘346 patent is listed with the FDA as protecting our OsmoPrep product. CDC licensed OsmoPrep and the ‘346 patent to us for commercialization in the United States. In addition, we own U.S. Patent No. 7,687,075, or the ‘075 patent, protecting OsmoPrep. Novel Laboratories, Inc., filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of OsmoPrep in the United States prior to the May 2013 expiration of the ‘346 patent and the 2028 expiration of the ‘075 patent. On September 8, 2008, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Novel for the infringement of the ‘346 patent and seeking a declaratory judgment confirming the validity of the patent. The lawsuit also joined CDC as a party. With the entry by the court of a Consent Judgment, the settlement will resolve all of the parties’ outstanding claims and defenses in the lawsuit. The Consent Judgment provides that Novel’s proposed generic product, absent a license as granted to Novel under the Sublicense Agreement described below, would infringe the ‘346 patent and further provides that Novel acknowledges and agrees not to contest the validity and enforceability of the ‘346 patent. In connection with the settlement, we entered into: a Settlement Agreement with CDC, Novel, Actavis Inc. and the general partnership of Craig Aronchick, William H. Lipshutz and Scott H. Wright (the “General Partnership”) that was the initial licensor of the ‘346 patent to Salix; a Sublicense Agreement with CDC, the General Partnership and Novel; a Supply Agreement with Novel; and, a Second Amendment to Supply Agreement with CDC and the General Partnership. Under the terms of the Sublicense Agreement, we, CDC and the General Partnership have granted Novel a fully paid up, non-exclusive license under the OsmoPrep patents such that it is permitted to launch a generic OsmoPrep product on November 16, 2019. 30 Table of Contents Rifaximin is a new chemical entity and was granted five-year new chemical entity exclusivity by the FDA when it was approved in May 2004. Rifaximin, therefore, had data exclusivity until May 2009. Accordingly, the Office of Generic Drugs of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or OGD, would have been able to accept an ANDA for Xifaxan tablets on or any time subsequent to May 2008, if the applicant made certifications of patent non-infringement or invalidity. If this occurred, a Paragraph IV notification would have to be provided to us by the applicant. Although we do not possess any specific knowledge of any such filing at the current time, the expiration of data exclusivity could result in a challenge to the related intellectual property rights of Xifaxan 200mg tablets at any time in the future. In May 2008 we submitted a Citizen Petition, requesting the director of OGD impose scientifically appropriate standards for the demonstration of bioequivalence for abbreviated new drug applications citing Xifaxan as the reference listed drug. Rifaximin 550mg, which is approved for the reduction in risk of HE recurrence in patients 18 years of age and older, was granted orphan exclusivity through March 2017. Accordingly OGD would have been able to accept an ANDA for Xifaxan 550mg tablets on or any time subsequent to March 2010, if the applicant made certifications of patent non-infringement or invalidity. If this occurred, a Paragraph IV notification would have to be provided to us by the applicant. Although we do not possess any specific knowledge of any such filing at the current time, the orphan exclusivity period does not prohibit the filing of an ANDA and thus, an ANDA filing could result in a challenge to the related intellectual property rights of Xifaxan 550mg tablets at any time in the future. The OGD would be unable to finally approve an ANDA until the expiration of the orphan exclusivity in March 2017. On November 29, 2011 the FDA posted draft bioequivalence guidance for rifaximin 200mg tablets for the treatment of travelers’ diarrhea. This guidance recommends successful completion of a randomized, double blind, parallel placebo controlled clinical trial in humans with clinical endpoints in order to file an ANDA for approval of a generic rifaximin 200mg tablet for the treatment of travelers’ diarrhea. In February 2012, the FDA posted draft bioequivalence guidance for rifaximin 550 mg tablets. The draft guidance for rifaximin 550 mg tablets recommends that in addition to conducting the program outlined in the FDA posted draft guidance document for rifaximin 200 mg tablets discussed above, a single-dose, three-way crossover in-vivo study of fasting bioequivalence with pharmacokinetic endpoints in both fasting and fed states be performed in the 500mg tablets. Additionally, the guidance stipulated that the formulation of the 550 mg strength should be proportionally similar to that of the 200 mg strength in order to file an ANDA for approval of a generic rifaximin 550 mg tablet for the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy. On November 3, 2010, we received a paragraph IV notification from Novel Laboratories, Inc. stating that Novel had filed an ANDA application to seek approval to market a generic version of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride ODT, 5 mg and 10 mg. The notification letter asserted non-infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,413,549, or the ‘549 patent. Upon examination of the relevant sections of the ANDA, we concluded that the ‘549 patent would not be enforced against Novel Laboratories. On March 15, 2001 we received a paragraph IV notification from Zydus Pharmaceuticals stating that Zydus had filed an ANDA application to seek approval to market a generic version of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride ODT, 5 mg and 10 mg. The notification letter asserted non-infringement of the ‘549 patent. Upon examination of the relevant sections of the ANDA, we concluded that the ‘549 patent would not be enforced against Zydus. In February 2011, Salix licensed exclusive worldwide (except Japan) rights to Relistor (methylnaltrexone bromide). The Relistor subcutaneous injection product was granted five year regulatory new chemical entity exclusivity until April 24, 2013. The exclusivity prevents the FDA from approving an ANDA until April 24, 2013; however, an ANDA may be filed after April 24, 2012. The Relistor subcutaneous injection has patent protection to November 2017. In August 2012 the USPTO issued U.S. Patent No. 8,247,425 covering Relistor subcutaneous injection in a prefilled syringe. The patent provides coverage until December 2030. There are other patents pending on the formulation, that if issued will provide protection to April 2024. Patent application for an oral version of Relistor, if issued, should provide protection to March 2031. In December 2011, Salix acquired licensed rights to Solesta and Deflux through the acquisition of Oceana Therapeutics, Inc. Deflux and Solesta are protected by U.S. Patent No. 5,633,001, which is directed to composition and method claims and provides protection to May 2014 and U.S. Patent No. 5,827,937, which is directed to methods of manufacturing and provides protection to July 2015. Because Azasan, Anusol-HC, Pepcid and Proctocort are mature products, there are no patents or data exclusivity rights available which subjects us to greater risk of generic competition for those products. 31 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with collaborative partners, employees and consultants. These agreements might be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently developed by others. Intense competition might render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in our business is intense and characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Technological developments by competitors, regulatory approval for marketing competitive products, including potential generic or over-the-counter products, or superior marketing resources possessed by competitors could adversely affect the commercial potential of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Generic competition is an increasing risk, as we have experienced with Colazal and Pepcid, and with challenges to our bowel-cleansing products’ intellectual property noted above. We believe that there are numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including large well-known pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research groups throughout the world, engaged in research and development efforts with respect to pharmaceutical products targeted at gastrointestinal diseases and conditions addressed by our current and potential products. In particular, we are aware of products in research or development by competitors that address the diseases being targeted by our products. Developments by others might render our current and potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competitors might be able to complete the development and regulatory approval process sooner and, therefore, market their products earlier than we can. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and development capabilities than we do. For example, many large, well-capitalized companies already offer products in the United States and Europe that target the indications for: • Xifaxan for HE, including lactulose (various manufacturers); • Xifaxan for travelers’ diarrhea, including ciprofloxacin, commonly known as Cipro (Bayer AG); • OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, including Colyte, Golytely, Halflytely, SuPrep, and Nulytely (Braintree), Trilyte (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC) and Prepopik (Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as well as potential generics from Novel Laboratories or others; • Apriso, including Asacol (Warner Chilcott), sulfasalazine (Pfizer), Dipentum (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC), Pentasa (Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, plc), once-a-day Lialda (Shire), and three generic balsalazide capsule products; • Relistor for OIC, including OTC laxatives (various manufacturers), Amitiza (Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Kristalose (Cumberland) and Entereg (Cubist); • Solesta, including various OTC antidiarrheals, fiber, stool softeners and laxatives (various manufacturers), biofeedback, the medical device Inter Stim (Medtronic) and sphincteroplasty surgery; • Xifaxan under development, including Lotronex® (Nestle S.A.) and Amitiza (Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) for IBS; and • Metozolv ODT, including Reglan• (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC), and various generics. In addition, other products are in research or development by competitors that address the diseases and diagnostic procedures being targeted by these and our other products. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We have been in the past and might continue to be subjected to product liability claims that arise through the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. For example, we are currently and might continue to be subject to a number of product liability claims relating to OsmoPrep and Visicol in connection with their “box” label warning. We intend to defend these claims vigorously. During the fourth quarter of 2011 we settled a number of the 32 Table of Contents OsmoPrep and Visicol lawsuits and were notified by our insurer that settlement of these claims exceeded the limits of the policies related to these claims. As a result, we recorded a $3.5 million reserve, which is our estimate of the costs of the remaining claims we are aware of. However, the eventual settlement of these claims could exceed this estimate, and we could receive additional claims we are not currently aware of. We have exceeded the limits of our liability coverage related to the claims discussed above, so we are responsible for additional damages, fees and expenses, if any. We currently maintain liability coverage for both clinical trials and the commercialization of our products other than the claims discussed above, but it is possible that this coverage and any future coverage will be insufficient to satisfy any liabilities that arise. We would have to assume defense of the lawsuits and be responsible for damages, fees and expenses, if any, that are awarded against us or for amounts in excess of our product liability coverage. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. In the future, we might not be able to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or might be unable to obtain adequate coverage at all. If government and other third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our ability to derive revenues might suffer. Our success will depend in part on the extent to which government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors will pay for our products. Reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products is uncertain. We acquired our first medical devices in December 2011, one of which was launched in 2011, and we are navigating the complex medical device reimbursement system. In the United States and elsewhere, third-party payors, such as Medicaid, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the United States, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been passed in recent years, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Many significant changes in this legislation do not take effect until 2014. These changes to the healthcare system could increase our costs and reduce the amount we can charge for our products. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on pharmaceutical and medical device pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts, including those relating to Medicaid payments, might have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could increase costs and reduce or eliminate profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party insurance coverage might not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products might be reduced. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part on our success in in-licensing or acquiring additional pharmaceutical products or medical devices. We currently intend to in-license or acquire additional pharmaceutical products or medical devices, as we did with crofelemer and budesonide, that have been developed beyond the initial discovery phase and for which late-stage human clinical data is already available, or as we did with Relistor, Deflux and Solesta, that have already received regulatory approval. These kinds of pharmaceutical products and medical devices might not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we might incur significant additional expense in connection with the development and, if approved by the FDA, marketing of these products. We are dependent on third parties to supply us with products. We rely entirely on third parties to supply us with our commercially marketed products and our products under development. For example, the raw material used in production of the crofelemer drug substance, our anti-secretory agent that is approved for marketing in the United States under the trade name Fulyzaq for the treatment of HIV-associated 33 Table of Contents diarrhea, grows in select countries in South America. Our ability to successfully obtain raw material is not within our control. Failure to obtain crofelemer drug substance, whether due to international, political or economic conditions or otherwise, could delay development, increase expenses, delay regulatory approval, or eventually prevent us from generating revenue from crofelemer, if approved, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A key raw material for Relistor grows in Tasmania. Our inability to obtain this raw material, whether due to international, political or economic conditions or otherwise, could delay development, increase expenses, delay regulatory approval, or eventually prevent us from generating revenue from additional indications for Relistor, if approved, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Likewise, interruption of supply of any of our other products, whether for clinical use or commercial use, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products. We own no manufacturing facilities, and we have limited capabilities in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We do not generally expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of products, but instead contract with and rely on third-party vendors, including Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. of India, which manufactures the drug substance for Fulyzaq, for these services. A limited number of contract manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our marketed products and our product candidates. We might fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or might contract with manufacturers on terms that may not be entirely acceptable to us. For example, in April 2010 we received a complete response letter from the FDA on our NDA for balsalazide tablets. The sole issue raised in this letter concerned a deficiency of the manufacturing facility for this application, which delayed FDA approval almost two years. Given our ongoing dependence on third party vendors for supply of material for use in clinical trials and for commercial product, our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: • the manufacture of products might be difficult to scale up when required and result in delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products; • some of our contracts contain purchase commitments that require us to make minimum purchases that might exceed our needs or limit our ability to negotiate with other manufacturers, which might increase costs; • the cost of manufacturing certain products might make them prohibitively expensive; • delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change in manufacturers could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; • manufacturers are subject to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by the third-party manufacturers; • if we need to change manufacturers, transfers of technical expertise would be required which would include educating the new manufacturer in the processes necessary for the production of our products, which might not be successful; and • if we need to change manufacturers, FDA and comparable foreign regulators might require additional testing and compliance inspections prior to the new manufacturer being qualified for the production of our products. Failure to comply with manufacturing regulation could harm us financially and could hurt our reputation. We and our third-party manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable cGMP regulations which include requirements relating to manufacturing, packaging, documentation, quality control, and quality assurance. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products. For example, in April 2010 we received a complete response letter from the FDA regarding our NDA for our balsalazide tablet. In the complete response letter there were no requests for new pre–clinical or clinical trials. The sole issue raised in this letter concerned a deficiency of the manufacturing facility for this application. The manufacturer responded to the FDA and was able to eventually resolve these deficiencies, allowing the FDA to proceed with the approval of this NDA in 2012. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic FDA inspection. Manufacturing regulations can increase our expenses and delay production, either of which could reduce our margins. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including: • delays, warning letters and fines; 34 Table of Contents • product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; • refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; • total or partial suspension of production; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, the occurrence of manufacturing-related compliance issues could cause subsequent withdrawal of the drug approval, reformulation of the drug product, additional testing or changes in labeling of the finished product. Because our business and industry are highly regulated and scrutinized, any failure to follow such regulations could result in litigation or government enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business and industry are highly regulated and scrutinized, and subject to litigation risks, including product liability risks described above and the risk of government enforcement actions. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations, including but not limited to, health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure or alleged failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. In recent years, there has been a heightened risk of governmental investigations into pharmaceutical companies’ sales and promotional practices for their products, including off-label uses, as evidenced by recent enforcement activity and/or pronouncements by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general. Matters underlying governmental investigations may also be the subject of private litigation. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for information about a pending federal government investigation concerning our sales and promotional practices for Xifaxan, Relistor and Apriso. If we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in this investigation, or any other investigation or litigation, we could incur significant damages, fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds, and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third-party manufacturers may also become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant, and the costs of complying with climate change laws could also be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations could subject us to substantial fines, penalties or environmental remediation costs, or cause us to lose permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, any of which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to complex laws and regulations governing our employees and contractors and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to our relationships with our employees and contractors are complex, extensive and fluid, and are subject to evolving interpretations by regulatory and judicial authorities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant damages, orders and/or fines and therefore could adversely affect our operations. For example, a 2010 decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, In re Novartis Wage & Hour Litigation, in a split from an earlier decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, held that Novartis’ pharmaceutical sales representatives were non-exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Second Circuit’s decision might trigger additional litigation against pharmaceutical companies, including us. An adverse result in any such litigation could result in significant damages to us and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. Our strategy is to identify and acquire rights to products that we believe have potential for near-term regulatory approval or are already approved, through the purchase or license of products and purchase of companies. Our integration of the operations of acquired products and businesses, including Oceana, which we acquired in December 2011 and which includes foreign employees and operations, requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include the strength of the acquired companies’ or products’ underlying technology and ability to execute, results of clinical trials, regulatory approvals and reimbursement levels of the acquired products and related procedures, our ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects and retain key employees, and our ability to achieve synergies with our acquired companies and products, such as increasing sales of our products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of these acquisitions could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses or products we acquire will become profitable or remain so and if our acquisitions are not successful, we may record related asset impairment charges in the future. Our results of operations might fluctuate from period to period, and a failure to meet the expectations of investors or the financial community at large could result in a decline in our stock price. As they have in the past, our results of operations might fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis due to, among other factors: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • the level of revenue generated by commercialized products, including potential increased purchases of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of potential price increases or introductions of new dosages or bottle sizes, and subsequent lower than expected revenue as the inventory is used; • the timing of any up-front payments that might be required in connection with any future acquisition of product rights; • the timing of milestone payments that might be required to our current or future licensors; • fluctuations in our development and other costs in connection with ongoing product development programs; • the level of marketing and other expenses required in connection with product launches and ongoing product growth; • the timing of the acquisition and integration of businesses, assets, products and technologies; and • general and industry-specific business and economic conditions. We expect to be profitable and have positive cash flow during 2013, but we might need additional capital. We expect to be profitable and have positive cash flow during 2013, and believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with cash generated from the sale of our products will be sufficient to fund our operations for 2013 and beyond, but that might not be the case. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • our business development activities, including potential acquisition of products or companies, or entry into additional collaborative arrangements; • the results, costs and timing of our research and development activities, regulatory approvals and product launches; • the status of competitive products, including current and potential generics; 36 Table of Contents • the cost and number of products we acquire or in-license; • any impact on us of current conditions and uncertainties in the economy generally and the financial markets; • patient and physician demand for our products; and • our ability to reduce our costs in the event product demand is less than expected, or regulatory approvals are delayed or more expensive than expected. If we need additional capital, we might seek additional debt or equity financing or both to fund our operations or acquisitions. If we incur more debt, we might be restricted in our ability to raise additional capital and might be subject to financial and restrictive covenants. If we issued additional equity, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We might also enter into additional collaborative arrangements that could provide us with additional funding in the form of equity, debt, licensing, milestone and/or royalty payments. We might not be able to enter into such arrangements or raise any additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, especially in the current economic environment. Our common stock is likely to decrease in value if the market believes that we will be required to raise additional capital. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile and might continue to be, making owning our stock risky. Between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2012, the price of a share of our common stock varied from a low of $23.53 to a high of $55.99. Our stock price increased or decreased by 5% or more on 15 days in 2011 and 4 days in 2012. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the performance of particular companies, including as a result of the current credit and economic crisis. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in the past been and can in the future be expected to be especially volatile. Announcements of prescription trends, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, generic approvals, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, might have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover or changes in our current directors or management that stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover or other change of control of us or the removal of our current directors and management, even if these events could be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions, which could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock, include the following: • Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a stockholder, or stockholders, controlling a majority of our common stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders’ meeting. • Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. • Only our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill vacancies created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of directors, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions might discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 37 Table of Contents As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 