Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations.” Environmental and Other Governmental Regulations The Company believes that its operations are in substantial compliance with applicable domestic and foreign federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. The Company does not anticipate any significant expenditure in order to continue to comply with such laws and regulations. 7 Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company had 530 employees worldwide. In addition to the services of its employees, the Company employs the services of consultants as required. The Company’s employees are not represented by labor unions. There have been no work stoppages or strikes during the last three years that have resulted in the loss of production or production delays. The Company believes its relations with its employees are satisfactory. Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K, the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, any Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward-looking statements which reflect the Company’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “project” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date the statement was made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The Company’s forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of the Company’s forward-looking information is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if its business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in the Company’s business environment, including but not limited to: • a potential decline in the demand for oil and natural gas; • potential declines or increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices that would adversely affect our customers, the energy industry or our production costs; • potential reductions in spending on exploration and development drilling in the oil and natural gas industry that would reduce demand for our products and services; • an increase in competition in the proppant market; • the development of alternative stimulation techniques; • the development of alternative proppants for use in hydraulic fracturing; • general global economic and business conditions; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • the potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments. The Company’s results of operations could also be adversely affected as a result of worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity or initiatives by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. For further information, see “Item 1A. Risk factors.” Available Information The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are made available free of charge on the Company’s internet website at http://www.carboceramics.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, Room 1580, N.E., NW, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site 8 that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A Risk Factors You should consider carefully the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business and financial performance depend on the level of activity in the natural gas and oil industries. Our operations are materially dependent upon the levels of activity in natural gas and oil exploration, development and production. These activity levels are affected by both short-term and long-term trends in natural gas and oil prices. In recent years, natural gas and oil prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, have experienced significant fluctuations. Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price volatility. A prolonged reduction in natural gas and oil prices would depress the level of natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and well completions activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if new processes are developed to replace hydraulic fracturing. Substantially all of our products are proppants used in the completion and re-completion of natural gas and oil wells through the process of hydraulic fracturing. The development of new processes for the completion of natural gas and oil wells leading to a reduction in or discontinuation of the use of the hydraulic fracturing process could cause a decline in demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by decreased demand for ceramic proppant or the development by our competitors of effective alternative proppants. Ceramic proppant is a premium product capable of withstanding higher pressure and providing more highly conductive fractures than mined sand, which is the most commonly used proppant type. Although we believe that the use of ceramic proppant generates higher production rates and more favorable production economics than mined sand, a significant shift in demand from ceramic proppant to mined sand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development and use of effective alternative proppant could also cause a decline in demand for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a competitive market. We compete with at least two other principal suppliers of ceramic proppant, as well as with suppliers of sand and resin-coated sand for use as proppant, in the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and oil wells. The proppant market is highly competitive and no one supplier is dominant. We rely upon, and receive a significant percentage of our revenues from, a limited number of key customers. During 2005, our largest customers were, in alphabetical order, BJ Services Company, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. and Schlumberger Limited, the three largest participants in the worldwide petroleum pressure pumping industry. Although the end users of our products are numerous operators of natural gas and oil wells that 9 hire the pressure pumping service companies to hydraulically fracture wells, these three customers accounted collectively for approximately 65% of our 2005 revenues. We generally supply our domestic pumping service customers with products on a just-in-time basis, with transactions governed by individual purchase orders. Continuing sales of product depend on our direct customers and the end user well operators being satisfied with both product quality and delivery performance. Although we believe our relations with our customers and the major well operators are satisfactory, a material decline in the level of sales to any one of our major customers due to unsatisfactory product performance, delivery delays or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain patents. We own four United States patents and one Argentinean patent. These patents generally cover the manufacture and use of our products. The U.S. patents expire at various times in the years 2006 through 2019, with two key product patents expiring in 2006 and one key patent expiring in 2009. We believe that these patents have been and will continue to be important in enabling us to compete in the market to supply proppant to the natural gas and oil industry. There can be no assurance that our patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors in the future or will provide us with any competitive advantage, or that other companies will not be able to market functionally similar products without violating our patent rights. In addition, if our patents are challenged, there can be no assurance that they will be upheld. The entry of additional competitors into the market to supply ceramic proppant following expiration of our U.S. patent rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We intend to enforce and have in the past vigorously enforced our patents. We are involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our patent rights. For information about litigation in which the Company is currently involved, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. Significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of natural gas is unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Natural gas is a significant component of our direct manufacturing costs and price escalations will likely increase our operating expenses and can have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We operate in a competitive marketplace and may not be able to pass through all of the increased costs that could result from an increase in the cost of natural gas. We are exposed to increased costs associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards We have expended significant resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules. Our compliance effort has resulted in increased expenses and these expenses are expected to continue. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of 10 the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. We use some hazardous substances and generate certain industrial wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. International revenues accounted for approximately 40%, 47% and 36% of our total revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • currency convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to risks associated with our production facilities in Luoyang, China, and Kopeysk, Russian Federation. The legal systems in both China and Russia are still developing and are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in both countries could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of each country’s law. Further, if manufacturing in the region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales and/or profitability could be negatively impacted. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly. The market price of the common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly, in response to various factors and events, including the following: • the liquidity of the market for our common stock; • differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • new statutes or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing statutes and regulations affecting our business; 11 • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • broad market fluctuations. Our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements we make. Some of the statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to trends in the natural gas and oil industries, the demand for ceramic proppant and our performance in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” sections of this Form 10-K. In addition, we have made and may continue to make forward-looking statements in other filings with the SEC, and in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. (See “Business — Forward-Looking Information.”) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 