Item 1A. Risk Factors Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent Brocade from maintaining or increasing revenue, profitability and cash flows with respect to its networking solutions. The market for data and storage networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco maintains a dominant position in the Ethernet networking market and several of its products compete directly with Brocade’s products. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its longer operating history, different product line and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may develop new technologies that directly compete with Brocade’s products or render its products obsolete. Brocade also competes with other companies, such as 3Com, Alcatel-Lucent, Enterasys Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Force10 Networks, Inc., HP ProCurve Division, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and Juniper. Brocade also faces significant competition from providers of Fibre Channel switching products for interconnecting servers and storage. These principal competitors include Cisco and QLogic Corporation. Brocade also faces other competitors in markets adjacent to the SAN and Ethernet networking markets, such as QLogic and Emulex Corporation in the server connectivity or HBA market. Brocade may continue to face competitors with well-established market share and customer relationships in adjacent markets. Some of Brocade’s current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Brocade’s competitors could also adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Brocade. Brocade believes that competition based on price may become more aggressive than it has traditionally experienced. Brocade’s competitors could also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than Brocade and, as a result, may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer or market requirements. Brocade’s failure to successfully compete in the market would harm Brocade’s business and financial results. Convergence and consolidation trends within the information technology industry are also beginning to bring historically separated computing, storage and Ethernet networking technologies together. These trends are shifting long-standing industry partnerships/alliances, go-to-market routes, technology models and represent risks for Brocade. For example, the ongoing development of new networking protocols such as FCoE and CEE are designed to merge storage and Ethernet network traffic inside of data centers. Brocade recently introduced new products that support FCoE/CEE. If the adoption rate of FCoE/CEE products varies significantly to what is currently projected by Brocade and other industry experts, this may negatively impact Brocade’s businesses. Competitors are likely to use emerging technologies and alternate routes-to-market to compete with Brocade. In addition, Brocade’s OEM partners, who also have relationships with some of Brocade’s current competitors, could become new competitors by developing and introducing products that compete with Brocade’s product offerings, by choosing to sell Brocade’s competitors’ products instead of Brocade’s products, or by offering preferred pricing or promotions on Brocade’s competitors’ products. For example, even though Brocade and IBM announced an agreement in April 2009 for IBM to sell certain Brocade Ethernet products and IP routers, Juniper and IBM announced a similar agreement in July 2009 with respect to certain of Juniper’s Ethernet switches and enterprise IP routers. Competitive pressure will also likely intensify as technology trends may impact long-standing alliances, partnerships and go-to-market routes. For example, in November 2009 Cisco, EMC and VMware announced a coalition called the “Virtual Computing Environment” ( or “VCE”) through which it and its business partners would sell packaged “cloud computing” and data center virtualization solutions. Further, Cisco and EMC announced a joint venture called “Acadia”, which is designed to serve as a support and services arm of VCE. EMC is currently Brocade’s top OEM in terms of Fibre Channel sales and has been a go-to-market and technology partner since 1997. The tightening relationship between Cisco and EMC may harm the Brocade and EMC partnership. In addition, on November 11, 2009, HP, a Brocade OEM partner, announced its intent to 13 Table of Contents acquire 3Com, a Brocade competitor in the Ethernet market. If this acquisition of 3Com is completed, it may increase the competitive dynamics in the Ethernet market for Brocade and could negatively impact important routes to market for Brocade’s storage and converged networking products. Brocade’s future revenue growth depends on its ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The market for networking solutions is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerating product introduction cycles, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Brocade’s future success depends largely upon its ability to address the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. This risk will likely become more pronounced as the networking markets become more competitive and as demand for new and improved technologies increases. Brocade has introduced a significant number of new products in recent history, including products across its family of Data Center Infrastructure solutions, which accounts for a substantial portion of Brocade’s revenues. Developing new offerings requires significant upfront investments that may not result in revenue for an extended period of time, if at all. Brocade must achieve widespread market acceptance of Brocade’s new product and service offerings on a timely basis in order to realize the benefits of Brocade’s investments. In addition, Brocade’s plans to sell its offerings through new channels also requires that market acceptance be successful. For example, in April 2009 Brocade announced an expanded relationship with IBM whereby IBM will rebrand and sell a set of Brocade enterprise Ethernet networking products through the IBM global sales force and authorized IBM business partners, extending the existing relationship between Brocade and IBM for storage area networking products. This expanded relationship also requires Brocade to make certain significant upfront investments, which costs may not be recovered or provide the desired return on investment if the anticipated benefits of the expanded relationship are not ultimately successful. The success of Brocade’s product and service offerings depends on numerous factors, including its ability to: • Properly define the new products and services; • Timely develop and introduce the new products and services; • Differentiate Brocade’s new products and services from its competitors’ technology and product offerings; • Address the complexities of interoperability of Brocade’s products with its installed base, OEM partners’ server and storage products and its competitors’ products; and • Maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. Various factors impacting market acceptance are outside of Brocade’s control, including the following: • The availability and price of competing products and alternative technologies; • The cost of certain product subcomponents, which could reduce Brocade’s gross margins; • Product qualification requirements by Brocade’s OEM partners, which can cause delays in the market acceptance; • The timing of the adoption of new industry standards relative to Brocade’s development of new technologies and products; • The ability of its OEM partners to successfully distribute, support and provide training for its products; and • Customer acceptance of Brocade’s products, including its Ethernet solutions. 14 Table of Contents If Brocade is not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, its business and results of operations will likely be harmed. The prices of Brocade’s products have declined in the past and Brocade expects the prices of Brocade’s products to continue to decline, which could reduce Brocade’s revenues, gross margins and profitability. The average selling price for Brocade’s products has declined in the past, and Brocade expects it to continue to decline in the future as a result of changes in competitive pricing pressure, broader macroeconomic factors, product mix, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, the entrance of new competitors and other factors. Price declines may also increase as competitors ramp up product releases that compete with Brocade’s products. Furthermore, as a result of cautious capital spending in the technology sector, coupled with broader macroeconomic factors, both Brocade and its competitors may pursue more aggressive pricing strategies in an effort to maintain or seek to increase sales levels. If Brocade is unable to offset any negative impact that changes in competitive pricing pressures, broader macroeconomic factors, product mix, increased sales discounts, enhanced marketing programs, new product introductions by Brocade or Brocade’s competitors, or other factors may have on its average selling price by increasing the volume of products shipped or reducing product manufacturing costs, Brocade’s total revenues and gross margins will be negatively impacted. In addition, to maintain Brocade’s gross margins, Brocade must maintain or increase the number of products shipped, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and continue to reduce the manufacturing costs of Brocade’s products. While Brocade has successfully reduced the cost of manufacturing Brocade’s products in the past, Brocade may not be able to continue to reduce cost of production at historical rates. Moreover, most of Brocade’s expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, Brocade may not be able to decrease its spending quickly enough or in sufficient amounts to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, Brocade could incur losses and Brocade’s operating results and gross margins could be below expectations. Additionally, Brocade’s gross margins may be negatively affected by fluctuations in manufacturing volumes, component costs, the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of distribution channels through which its products are sold. For example, on a historical basis, Brocade’s Ethernet networking products generally realized higher gross margins on direct sales to an end-user than on sales through its resellers or to its OEMs. As a result, any significant shift in revenue through resellers or to OEMs could harm Brocade’s gross margins. In addition, if product or related warranty costs associated with Brocade’s products are greater than previously experienced, Brocade’s gross margins may also be adversely affected. Finally, increased costs resulting from higher-than-anticipated oil prices and the volatility of the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the costs of components used in Brocade’s products and negatively affect Brocade’s gross margins. The slowdown in the domestic and global economies and their delayed recovery may increasingly adversely affect Brocade’s operating results and financial condition. The domestic and global economies have undergone a period of significant uncertainty and slowdown, which has resulted in reduced demand for information technology, including high-performance data networking solutions, and an extended delay in the recovery of such economies may continue to negatively impact demand further. Information technology spending has historically declined as general economic and market conditions have worsened. If the domestic and global economic slowdown is prolonged, or if Brocade’s customers believe such a slowdown will continue for a sustained period, Brocade’s customers may further reduce their information technology spending and future budgets. Brocade is particularly susceptible to reductions in information technology spending because the purchase of IT-related products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Different geographic regions (e.g. North America, Western Europe, Asia Pacific region) may experience greater economic slowdown and/or a longer recovery period. Future delays or reductions in information technology spending, domestically and/or internationally, could harm Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including 15 Table of Contents longer sales cycles, increased inventory provisions, increased production costs, lowered prices for its products and reduced sales volumes. Similarly, if Brocade’s suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials Brocade uses to manufacture its products or may offer the materials at higher prices. These events have caused, and may further cause, reductions in Brocade’s revenue, profitability and cash flows; increased price competition and operating costs; longer fulfillment cycles; and may cause many other risks noted in this Form 10-K, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Given the current uncertainty about the extent and duration of the global financial slowdown, it is difficult for Brocade, its customers and its suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand. The reduced visibility could cause Brocade to produce excess products that would increase its inventory carrying costs and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products or materials used in Brocade’s products that would result in its inability to satisfy demand for its products and a loss of market share. The economic slowdown has also significantly affected financing markets, the availability of capital and the terms and conditions of financing arrangements, including the overall cost of financing. Circumstances may arise in which Brocade needs or desires to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which in turn could adversely affect Brocade’s financial condition and could increase shareholder dilution. Brocade incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Foundry that decreases Brocade’s business flexibility and access to capital, and increases its borrowing costs, which may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. Upon completion of the acquisition of Foundry, Brocade increased its indebtedness by approximately $1.1 billion, which is substantially greater than its indebtedness prior to the acquisition. The financial and other covenants agreed to by Brocade in connection with such indebtedness and the increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of Brocade in comparison to that of Brocade on a recent historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing Brocade’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs, and may adversely affect Brocade’s operations and financial results. The increased indebtedness may also adversely affect Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital or incur certain liens. Certain types of financing, certain types of sale and leaseback transactions, or other transactions may require Brocade to seek an amendment or waiver under its Senior Secured Credit Facility. Any such amendment or waiver may require a demand payment to Brocade’s debt holders or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, Brocade’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and its other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default. If any of Brocade’s debt is accelerated, Brocade may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. The current debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facility has a floating interest rate and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact Brocade’s financial results. The mandatory debt repayment schedule on the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the maturity of the existing convertible subordinated debt in fiscal year 2010 may negatively impact Brocade’s cash position and reduce Brocade’s financial flexibility. In addition, any changes by rating agencies to Brocade’s credit rating in connection with such indebtedness may negatively impact the value and liquidity of Brocade’s debt and equity securities and Brocade’s ability to access sources of capital. The failure to accurately forecast demand for Brocade’s products or the failure to successfully manage the production of Brocade’s products could negatively affect the supply of key components for Brocade’s products and Brocade’s ability to manufacture and sell Brocade’s products. Brocade provides product forecasts to its contract manufacturers and places purchase orders with them in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to Brocade’s customers. Moreover, in preparing sales and demand forecasts, Brocade relies largely on input from its OEM partners and its resellers and end-user customers. 16 Table of Contents Therefore, if Brocade or its OEM partners are unable to accurately forecast demand, or if Brocade fails to effectively communicate with its distribution partners about end-user demand or other time-sensitive information, the sales and demand forecasts may not reflect the most accurate, up-to-date information. If these forecasts are inaccurate, Brocade may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers to meet customers’ delivery requirements or Brocade may accumulate excess inventories. Furthermore, Brocade may not be able to identify forecast discrepancies until late in its fiscal quarter. Consequently, Brocade may not be able to make adjustments to its business model. If Brocade is unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from its contract manufacturers, if Brocade accumulates excess inventories, or if Brocade is unable to make necessary adjustments to Brocade’s business model, revenue may be delayed or even lost to Brocade’s competitors and Brocade’s business and financial results may be harmed. In addition, Brocade may experience higher fixed costs as it expands its contract manufacturer capabilities and thus be less able to react quickly if demand suddenly decreases. Brocade’s ability to accurately forecast demand also may become increasingly more difficult as Brocade enters new or adjacent markets, begins phasing out certain products, or acquires other companies or businesses. Forecasting demand for new or adjacent markets, particularly where the markets are not yet well-established, may be highly speculative and uncertain. For products that are nearing end of life or are being replaced by new versions, it may be difficult to forecast how quickly to decrease production on the older products and ramp up production on the new products. Acquired companies or businesses may offer less visibility into demand than Brocade typically has experienced, may cause customer uncertainty regarding purchasing decisions, and may use different measures to evaluate demand that are less familiar to Brocade and thus more difficult to accurately predict. In addition, although the purchase orders placed with Brocade’s contract manufacturers are cancelable, in certain circumstances Brocade could be required to purchase certain unused material not returnable, usable by, or sold to other customers if Brocade cancels any of Brocade’s orders. This purchase commitment exposure is particularly high in periods of new product introductions and product transitions. If Brocade is required to purchase unused material from Brocade’s contract manufacturers, Brocade would incur unanticipated expenses and Brocade’s business and financial results could be negatively affected. In the past, Brocade’s Ethernet products have experienced delays in product shipments from its contract manufacturers and OEMs, which in turn delayed product shipments to its customers. Brocade may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, such as insufficient quantity of product, acquisition by a competitor or business failure of any of its OEMs, any of which could harm Brocade’s business and operating results. Brocade is subject to and may be subject to more intellectual property infringement claims and litigation that are costly to defend and/or settle, and that could result in significant damage and cost awards against Brocade and limit Brocade’s ability to use certain technologies in the future. Brocade competes in markets that are frequently subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright and trade secret rights against Brocade, and as particular examples, against its products and services, subcomponents of its products, methods performed by its products or used in its operations, or uses of its products by its customers. Brocade and companies acquired by Brocade, such as Foundry, have in the past incurred, are currently incurring and will in the future incur substantial expenses to defend against such third-party claims. For instance, Brocade currently is involved in patent-related lawsuits with Enterasys Networks, Inc., Network-1 Security Solutions, Inc., and Chrimar Systems, Inc. In addition, Brocade may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to Brocade agreements with suppliers, OEM and channel partners or customers. The third party asserters of such intellectual property claims may be unreasonable in their settlement demands, or may simply refuse to settle, which could lead to expensive settlement payments and/or prolonged periods of litigation expenses. In the event of an adverse determination, Brocade could incur substantial monetary liability and be prohibited from shipping certain products or incorporating necessary components into Brocade’s products. Suppliers of components or OEM systems to 17 Table of Contents Brocade may be unwilling to, or not be able to, defend or indemnify Brocade against third-party assertions directed at the components or systems they supply to Brocade, and may be unwilling to take licenses that would assure Brocade’s supply of such components or OEM systems. Customers may perceive such third-party intellectual property claims as risks, and may, as a result, be less willing to do business with Brocade. Any of the above scenarios could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and future business prospects. Brocade relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technologies, but none of these methods of protection may be entirely reliable, due to, for instance, employee hiring and turnover, geographic dispersion of employees, technology disclosures with suppliers, customers, and partners, unpredictable events or negligence, and other aspects of doing business on the scale of Brocade’s operations. Brocade attempts to identify its technological developments for assessment of whether to file patent applications, but there can be no assurance that all patentable technological developments will be captured in patent applications. Further, although Brocade has patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. The value, validity, and enforceability of intellectual property rights generated by Brocade’s operations, obtained from acquired companies, or purchased from third parties, are subject to many unknowns, and may not ultimately have the value originally anticipated. Brocade has a high concentration of customers, including a limited number of OEM partners, which it relies on for a substantial portion of its revenues. The loss of any of these customers or OEM partners or a decrease in their purchases could significantly reduce Brocade’s revenues and negatively affect Brocade’s financial results. Brocade depends on recurring purchases from a limited number of large OEM partners for a substantial portion of its revenues. As a result, these large OEM partners have a significant influence on Brocade’s quarterly and annual financial results. For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, the same three customers each represented 10% or more of Brocade’s total net revenues for a combined total of 48%, 65% and 68%, respectively. Brocade’s agreements with its OEM partners are typically cancelable, non-exclusive, have no minimum purchase requirements and have no specific timing requirements for purchases. Brocade’s OEM partners could also elect to reduce, or rebalance, the amount they purchase from Brocade and increase the amount purchased from Brocade’s competitors. Also, one or more of Brocade’s OEM partners could elect to consolidate or enter into a strategic partnership with one of Brocade’s competitors, which could have the effect of reducing or eliminating Brocade’s future revenue opportunities with that OEM partner. Brocade anticipates that a significant portion of its revenues and operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of OEM partners. The loss of any one significant OEM partner, or a decrease in the level of sales to any one significant OEM partner, or unsuccessful quarterly negotiation on key terms, conditions or timing of purchase orders placed during a quarter, would likely cause serious harm to Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade’s OEM partners evaluate and qualify Brocade’s products for a limited time period before they begin to market and sell them. Assisting Brocade’s OEM partners through the evaluation process requires significant sales, marketing and engineering management efforts on Brocade’s part, particularly if Brocade’s products are being qualified with multiple distribution partners at the same time. In addition, once Brocade’s products have been qualified, its customer agreements have no minimum purchase commitments. Brocade may not be able to effectively maintain or expand its distribution channels, manage distribution relationships successfully, or market its products through distribution partners. Brocade must continually assess, anticipate and respond to the needs of its distribution partners and their customers, and ensure that its products integrate with their solutions. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage its distribution relationships or the failure of its distribution partners to sell Brocade’s products could reduce Brocade’s revenues significantly. In addition, Brocade’s ability to respond to the needs of its distribution partners in the future may depend on third parties producing complementary products and applications for Brocade’s products. If Brocade fails to respond successfully to the needs of these groups, its business and financial results could be harmed. 18 Table of Contents The loss of continued orders from any of Brocade’s more significant customers, such as the U.S. government or individual agencies within the U.S. government, or companies within the financial services, education and health sectors, could also cause its revenue and profitability to suffer. For example, if Brocade is unable to offer qualified products to such government customers due to governmental procurement regulations and requirements with respect to country of origin designation, Brocade’s government orders could decrease, which would negatively impact its revenue and operating results. In addition, Brocade’s ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of its products. In addition, a change in the mix of Brocade’s customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect its revenue and gross margins. Brocade is dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components, the loss of which may significantly impact results of operations. Although Brocade uses standard parts and components for its products where possible, Brocade’s CMs currently purchase, on Brocade’s behalf, several key components used in the manufacture of its products from single or limited supplier sources. Brocade’s principal single source components include ASICs and Brocade’s principal limited source components include memory, certain oscillators, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips, power supplies, programmable logic devices, printed circuit boards, certain optical components, packet processors and switching fabrics. Brocade generally acquires these components through purchase orders and have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing with such suppliers. If Brocade is unable to obtain these and other components when required or if Brocade experiences significant component defects, Brocade may not be able to deliver Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers in a timely manner. In addition, the recent global economic slowdown may cause some of these sole source or limited source suppliers to delay production or go out of business and could result in a disruption to Brocade’s supply chain. As a result, Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. In addition, the loss of any of Brocade’s major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact Brocade’s ability to produce its products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is typically a lengthy and expensive process. If Brocade is required to change its contract manufacturers or if any of its contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of Brocade’s products to Brocade’s customers could be delayed and result in loss of revenues and Brocade’s competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. Brocade’s failure to successfully manage the transition between its new products and its older products may adversely affect Brocade’s financial results. As Brocade introduces new or enhanced products, Brocade must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When Brocade introduces new or enhanced products that feature higher-performance, higher-density and new technology options, Brocade faces numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. In addition, any customer uncertainty regarding the timeline for rolling out new products or Brocade’s plans for future support of existing products, may negatively impact customer purchase decisions. Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of Brocade’s products or businesses and asset impairments. Brocade carries a substantial amount of acquired intangible assets and goodwill on its balance sheet. Brocade’s determination of fair value of long-lived assets relies on management’s assumptions of future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, 19 Table of Contents Brocade may be required to realign its resources strategically and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in, or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Similarly, if management’s estimates of future operating results change or if there are changes to other assumptions, such as the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the estimate of the fair value of Brocade’s reporting units could change significantly, which could result in goodwill impairment charges. Brocade’s estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of Brocade’s carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. For example, during the three months ended May 2, 2009, Brocade recorded a non-cash $53.3 million impairment charge in connection with the decision to no longer offer Brocade’s suite of Files products. Brocade’s estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are also affected by changes in real estate market conditions. In addition, Brocade has made investments in certain private companies which could become impaired if the operating results of those companies change adversely. Brocade is required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. Brocade has extensive international operations, which subjects it to additional business risks. A significant portion of Brocade’s sales occur in international jurisdictions. In addition, Brocade’s contract manufacturers have significant operations in China. Brocade plans to continue to expand its international operations and sales activities. Brocade’s international sales of its Ethernet networking products have primarily depended on its resellers, including Pan Dacom GmbH in Europe, Stark Technology Inc. in Taiwan and Samsung Corporation in Korea. The failure by international resellers to sell Brocade’s products could limit its ability to sustain and grow revenue. Expansion of international operations will involve inherent risks that Brocade may not be able to control, including: • Supporting multiple languages; • Recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support Brocade’s products; • Complying with governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for its products; • Increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • Increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; • Multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • Longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • Reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; • Managing a research and development team in geographically diverse locations, including China and India; and • Increased complexity of logistics and distribution arrangements. Failure to manage expansion effectively could seriously harm Brocade’s business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, international political instability may halt or hinder Brocade’s ability to do business and may increase Brocade’s costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased 20 Table of Contents national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, may suddenly increase international tensions. Such events may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect Brocade’s business operations or the operations of Brocade’s OEM partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers. To date, no material amount of Brocade’s international revenues and cost of revenues have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Brocade’s products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase Brocade’s operating costs in foreign locations. In the future, a larger portion of Brocade’s international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will subject Brocade to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. In addition, Brocade may be unable to successfully hedge against any such fluctuations. Business interruptions could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade’s operations and the operations of its suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, earthquake, hurricane, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond Brocade’s control. For example, a substantial portion of Brocade’s facilities, including its corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. Brocade does not have multiple site capacity for all of its services in the event of any such occurrence. In the event of a major earthquake, Brocade could experience business interruption, destruction of facilities and loss of life. Brocade does not carry earthquake insurance and has not set aside funds or reserves to cover such potential earthquake-related losses. Additionally, health issues such as an outbreak of a pandemic or epidemic, including the H1N1 flu (swine flu) virus, may interrupt business operations in those geographic regions affected by the disease. In addition, one of Brocade’s contract manufacturers has a major facility located in an area that is subject to hurricanes. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Brocade, its suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers, shipments could be delayed and Brocade’s business and financial results could be harmed. Despite Brocade’s implementation of network security measures, its servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with its computer systems. Brocade may not carry sufficient insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Brocade’s business is subject to cyclical fluctuations and uneven sales patterns, which make predicting results of operations difficult. Many of Brocade’s partners experience uneven sales patterns in their businesses due to the cyclical nature of information technology spending. For example, some of Brocade’s partners close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each fiscal quarter, and other partners experience spikes in sales during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Because a large portion of Brocade’s sales are derived from a small number of OEM partners, when they experience seasonality, Brocade typically experiences similar seasonality. Historically, Brocade’s first and fourth fiscal quarters are seasonally stronger quarters than its second and third fiscal quarters. These OEM partners make decisions to purchase inventory based on a variety of factors, including their product qualification cycles and their expectations of end customer demand, which may be affected by seasonality and their internal supply management objectives. Others require that Brocade maintain inventories of Brocade’s products in hubs adjacent to their manufacturing facilities and purchase Brocade’s products only as necessary to fulfill immediate customer demand. In addition, Brocade has experienced quarters where uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners have resulted in a significant portion of Brocade’s revenue occurring in the last month of Brocade’s fiscal quarter. For example, Brocade’s Ethernet networking business typically experiences significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period. Such non-linearity in shipments due to sales patterns can increase costs, as irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and additional costs associated with higher inventory levels and inventory planning. Furthermore, orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to Brocade’s 21 Table of Contents manufacturing lead times. This exposes Brocade to additional inventory risk because Brocade must order products in anticipation of expected future orders and additional sales risk if Brocade is unable to fulfill unanticipated demand. In addition, receipt of a high number of customer orders towards the end of a fiscal quarter will increase reported receivables outstanding as a fraction of reported sales and result in higher days sales outstanding. Brocade is not able to predict the degree to which the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of Brocade’s OEM partners or other customers will affect Brocade’s business in the future, particularly as Brocade releases new products. Undetected software or hardware errors could increase Brocade’s costs, reduce Brocade’s revenues and delay market acceptance of Brocade’s products. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, or bugs, when first introduced or as new versions are released. Brocade’s products are becoming increasingly complex and particularly as Brocade continues to expand Brocade’s product portfolio to include software-centric products, including software licensed from third parties, errors may be found from time to time in Brocade’s products. In addition, through its acquisitions, Brocade has assumed, and may in the future assume, products previously developed by an acquired company that have not been through the same level of product development, testing and quality control processes used by Brocade, and may have known or undetected errors. Some types of errors also may not be detected until the product is installed in a heavy production or user environment. In addition, Brocade’s products are often combined with other products, including software, from other vendors, and these products often need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause Brocade to incur significant warranty and repair costs, may divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts, and may cause significant customer relations problems. Moreover, the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by another vendor’s storage, data management or Ethernet products or Brocade’s, could delay market acceptance of Brocade’s new products. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading price of Brocade’s stock. Brocade’s quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors. Factors that may affect the predictability of Brocade’s annual and quarterly results include, but are not limited to, the following: • Disruptions or a continued decline in general economic conditions, particularly in the information technology industry; • Announcements of pending or completed acquisitions or other strategic transactions by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • Announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Brocade, its competitors or its partners; • The timing of customer orders, product qualifications and product introductions of Brocade’s partners; • Seasonal fluctuations; • Long and complex sales cycles; • Declines in average selling prices for Brocade’s products as a result of competitive pricing pressures or new product introductions by Brocade or its competitors; • The emergence of new competitors and new technologies in the networking markets; • Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, services, or product enhancements introduced by Brocade or its competitors; 22 Table of Contents • Brocade’s ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of its customers; • Brocade’s ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-sourced components, including ASICs, microprocessors, certain connectors, certain logic chips and programmable logic devices; • Increases in prices of components used in the manufacture of Brocade’s products; • Brocade’s ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels; • Variations in the mix of Brocade’s products sold and the mix of distribution channels and geographies through which they are sold; • Pending or threatened litigation; • Stock-based compensation expense that is affected by Brocade’s stock price; • New legislation and regulatory developments; and • Other risk factors detailed in this section. Accordingly, the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Brocade cannot assure you that in some future quarter Brocade’s revenues or operating results will not be below Brocade’s projections or the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, which could cause Brocade’s stock price to decline. Brocade’s business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements, and environmental regulations that could adversely affect Brocade’s business and financial results. Brocade is subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which Brocade’s common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the IRS and NASDAQ, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. In addition, the Department of Treasury, the SEC and various Congressional representatives have recently proposed additional rules and regulations that may go into effect in the near future. Brocade is also subject to various rules and regulations of certain foreign jurisdictions, including applicable tax regulations. Brocade’s efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. A change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which Brocade does business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in Brocade’s tax expense. For example, in May 5, 2009, the President of the United States and the U.S. Treasury Department proposed changing certain of the U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States. Specific legislation has not yet been proposed or enacted, but it is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase Brocade’s U.S. income tax liability in the future. Brocade is subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. For example, Brocade is under examination by the IRS for its domestic federal income tax return for the fiscal years 2003 through 2006. In May 2006, the Franchise Tax Board notified Brocade that its California income tax returns for the years ended October 25, 2003 and October 30, 2004 were subject to audit. In February 2009, the IRS commenced an examination of Foundry’s federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. All these examination cycles remain open as of October 31, 2009. The SEC also periodically reviews Brocade’s public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to Brocade’s historical financial results. 23 Table of Contents The IRS is contesting the Company’s transfer pricing for the cost sharing and buy-in arrangements with its foreign subsidiaries. The Company appealed the Revenue Agent’s Report to the Appeals Office of the IRS for the years under examination. The IRS also notified the Company that it will audit the fiscal year 2007 and 2008 income tax returns. The IRS may make similar claims against the Company’s transfer pricing arrangements in future examinations. Audits by the IRS are subject to inherent uncertainties and an unfavorable outcome could occur, such as fines or penalties. The occurrence of an unfavorable outcome in any specific period could have a material adverse effect on Brocade’s results of operations for that period or future periods. The expense of defending and resolving such an audit may be significant. The amount of time to resolve an audit is unpredictable and defending Brocade may divert management’s attention from Brocade’s day-to-day business operations, which could adversely affect Brocade’s business. Brocade is subject to various environmental and other regulations governing product safety, materials usage, packaging and other environmental impacts in the various countries where Brocade’s products are sold. For example, many of Brocade’s products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium and other substances, and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of Brocade’s products when they have reached the end of their useful life. For example, in Europe, substance restrictions apply to products sold, and certain of Brocade’s partners require compliance with these or more stringent requirements. In addition, recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements apply to products Brocade sells in Europe. China has also enacted similar legislation with similar requirements for Brocade’s products or its partners. Despite Brocade’s efforts to ensure that its products comply with new and emerging requirements, Brocade cannot provide absolute assurance that its products will, in all cases, comply with such requirements. If Brocade’s products do not comply with the substance restrictions under local environmental laws, Brocade could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions and contract damage claims. In addition, Brocade could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into one or more jurisdictions and required to recall and replace any non-compliant products already shipped, which would disrupt its ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories, and harm to Brocade’s business and customer relationships. Brocade’s suppliers may also fail to provide it with compliant materials, parts and components despite Brocade’s requirement to do so, which could impact Brocade’s ability to timely produce compliant products and, accordingly, could disrupt its business. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and strategic investments, and integration of acquired companies or technologies may negatively impact Brocade’s business. Brocade has in the past acquired, or made strategic investments in, other companies, products or technologies, and Brocade expects to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Examples of recent acquisitions include Foundry in December 2008, Strategic Business Systems, Inc. in March 2008 and McDATA Corporation in January 2007. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Foundry or any other acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in successfully integrating the acquired businesses; • Revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels if existing customers alter or reduce their historical buying patterns; • Unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • Diversion of management’s attention from Brocade’s daily operations and business; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • Risks associated with entering into markets in which Brocade has limited or no prior experience; • Inability to attract and retain key employees; 24 Table of Contents • Inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • Inability to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; • Inability to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities of the combined company; • Inability to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to the combined company; • Inability to qualify the combined company’s products with OEM customers on a timely basis, or at all; • Failure to consolidate the combined company’s professional services and customer support organizations; • Inability to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems; • Failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • Assumption or incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and related obligations to service such liabilities and Brocade’s ability to satisfy financial and other negative operating covenants; • Additional costs such as increased costs of manufacturing and service costs, costs associated with excess or obsolete inventory, costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes, advisor and professional fees, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services; • Incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • Incurrence of acquisition and integration related costs, accounting charges, or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets, that could negatively impact Brocade’s operating results and financial condition; • Potential write-down of goodwill and/or acquired intangible assets, which are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, and could significantly impact Brocade’s operating results; and • Dilution of the percentage of Brocade’s stockholders to the extent equity is used as consideration or option plans are assumed, such as in the case of the Foundry acquisition, in which approximately 125.1 million additional shares of Brocade common stock became issuable in connection with the assumption or substitution of Foundry equity awards. If Brocade is not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that Brocade acquires, or to realize expected benefits of Brocade’s acquisitions or strategic investments, Brocade’s business and financial results would be adversely affected. Brocade relies on licenses from third parties and the loss or inability to obtain any such license could harm its business. Many of Brocade’s products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, Brocade believes that, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Brocade’s inability to obtain certain licenses or 25 Table of Contents other rights on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on Brocade’s business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if Brocade fails to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in Brocade’s products, Brocade may be required to license key portions of Brocade’s products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of source code. Brocade is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that could adversely affect its operating results. Brocade is a party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits brought against Brocade, or legal actions initiated by Brocade, can often be expensive and time-consuming. For example, in the past, Brocade has incurred significant expenses pursuant to certain indemnification obligations to various current and former officers and directors in connection with Brocade’s historical stock option granting practices and other related matters. Unfavorable outcomes from these claims and/or lawsuits could adversely affect Brocade’s business, results of operations, or financial condition. If Brocade loses key talent or is unable to hire additional qualified talent, Brocade’s business may be harmed. Brocade’s success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other talent, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Brocade believes its future success will also depend, in large part, upon Brocade’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other talent, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically diverse locations. There is a limited number of qualified talent in the applicable market and competition for such employees is strong. In the past, Brocade has experienced difficulty in hiring qualified talent in areas such as application-specific integrated circuits, software, system and test, sales, marketing, service, key management and customer support. Although Brocade’s stock price generally increased during the twelve months ended October 31, 2009, any future declines in Brocade’s stock price could result in additional “underwater” stock options held by its employees. If such a decline in Brocade’s stock price were to occur, any resulting underwater options could decrease Brocade’s ability to incentivize or retain qualified talent. Brocade’s ability to retain qualified talent may also be affected by future and recent acquisitions, which may cause uncertainty and loss of key talent. The loss of the services of any of Brocade’s key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified talent in the future, or delays in hiring required talent, particularly engineers and sales talent, could delay the development and introduction of Brocade’s products or services, and negatively affect Brocade’s ability to sell its products or services. In addition, companies in the computer storage, networking and server industries whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Brocade may be subject to such claims in the future as Brocade seeks to hire additional qualified talent. Such claims could result in litigation. As a result, Brocade could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is resolved against Brocade. Provisions in Brocade’s charter documents, customer agreements and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or mergers that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • Providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; 26 Table of Contents • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • Limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • Prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • Requiring supermajority voting to effect amendments to the foregoing provisions of Brocade’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with Brocade, and Brocade’s agreements with certain of Brocade’s customers require that Brocade give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain manufacturing rights following a change of control. Brocade’s various change-of-control provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of Brocade, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for Brocade’s stock. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits in connection with its recent purchase of real estate and plans to develop and construct office buildings, which could disrupt its business and negatively impact its financial performance. Brocade’s recent purchase of real estate in San Jose, California and its commitment to build a new campus of several buildings on that real estate constitute a substantial investment. Brocade may not realize the anticipated benefits with respect to the purchase and development of such property. Brocade is devoting significant capital resources to developing the campus, which will reduce Brocade’s liquidity and financial flexibility. Additionally, the development, construction and maintenance of the new campus may result in unexpected costs or delays, which may negatively impact Brocade’s financial position. Moreover, any delays in the development or construction of the new campus may also suspend Brocade’s ability to move into the new campus on a timely basis and, as a result, may disrupt Brocade’s business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 