Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of Xifaxan and our other marketed products might be less than expected. We currently market and sell twelve primary products, with a majority of our historical revenue derived from sales of Colazal prior to 2008. We expect Xifaxan, which was launched in mid-2004 for the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, and approved and launched in March 2010 for the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy to be our most significant source of revenue in the future. If sales of our marketed products decline or if we experience product returns significantly in excess of estimated amounts recorded, particularly with respect to Xifaxan, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community will depend upon a number of factors including: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, and including any generic or over-the-counter competitors; • perceptions by physicians and other members of the healthcare community regarding the safety and efficacy of the products; • price increases, and the price of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • patient and physician demand; • adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or other drugs in our class; • the results of product development efforts for new indications; • the scope and timing of additional marketing approvals and favorable reimbursement programs for expanded uses; • availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the products; and • our success in getting other companies to distribute our products outside of the U.S. gastroenterology market. Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our products. Development of our products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. This regulation could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or 22 Table of Contents limit our ability to sell our product candidates, including specifically rifaximin for irritable bowel syndrome, or IBS. In August 2010, the FDA accepted our NDA for rifaximin for IBS, and gave us an action date of December 7, 2010. In October 2010 the FDA informed us they were extending the action date by three months to provide for a full review and extended our action date to March 7, 2011. There is no assurance that the FDA will approve rifaximin for IBS in a timely manner, or at all. In early 2008, the FDA announced that because of its large workload it might not meet its target dates to respond to NDA submissions, and since then we have experienced delays in FDA review of Metozolv, balsalazide tablets and rifaximin for HE. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: • the drug is not effective; • patients experience severe side effects during treatment; • appropriate patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected, as was the case with our Xifaxan Phase III trial in Thailand for the prevention of travelers’ diarrhea; • drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or • we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. For example, rifaximin has been approved for treatment of travelers’ diarrhea and HE, but we are developing rifaximin for IBS and other indications. The FDA might not ever approve any of our compounds in the indications we are pursuing, which would mean we cannot market these compounds for use in these indications. Regulatory approval, even if granted, might entail ongoing requirements or restrictions on marketing that could increase our expenses and limit revenue. Approval might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies, or limit how or to whom we can sell our products. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. For example, in 2008 the FDA required us to put a “black box” warning on the OsmoPrep and Visicol labels regarding potential kidney damage that could result from their use, and a “black box” warning for Metozolv regarding tardive dyskensia which could result from its use. These warnings could limit future sales of those products. In addition, FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them might increase our expenses, impair our ability to effectively market our products, and limit our revenue. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection. The intellectual property rights protecting our products might not afford us with meaningful protection from generic and other competition. In addition, because our strategy is to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products which typically have been discovered and initially researched by others, future products might have limited or no remaining patent protection due to the time elapsed since their discovery. Competitors could also design around any of our intellectual property or otherwise design competitive products that do not infringe our intellectual property. Any litigation that we become involved in to enforce intellectual property rights could result in substantial cost to us. In addition, claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could be costly. Our patent or other proprietary rights related to our products might conflict with the current or future intellectual property rights of others. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial cost to 23 Table of Contents us, might be necessary to defend any patents to which we have rights and our other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of patent and intellectual property claims is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling one or more of our products. We might not be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology that we require to conduct our business, or, if obtainable, that technology might not be available at a reasonable cost. Upon patent expiration, our drugs could be subject to generic competition, which could negatively affect our pricing and sales volume. As previously disclosed, this has already happened to Colazal, which had been our largest selling drug prior to 2008. Patent applications relating to rifaximin compositions and related chemical substances were filed together with Alfa Wasserman and issued in May 2006. This patent extends patent coverage to 2024 and in 2009 a related patent, U.S. Patent No. 7,612,199 issued to provide further coverage of rifaximin. In November of 2008 and in October 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued a patent covering the use of rifaximin for treating irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and bloating caused by small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, respectively. The patent for the treatment of the intestinal tract with the Apriso will provide patent coverage to 2018. In June 2009, U.S. Patent No. 7,547,451 issued, which relates to methods of producing Apriso and provides further protection. The patent application relating to the dosage form for metoclopramide protects the product until July 2017. The patent for crofelemer, relating to enteric formulations and uses thereof provide protection until 2018 and should be entitled to patent term restoration as a new molecular entity. There is no assurance that these patents or the patent term restorations will be issued or granted, respectively. Patent expiration dates listed herein, unless otherwise noted, are for U.S. patents and assume there are no patent term adjustments, extensions or other adverse events that could affect the term or scope of a patent. Dates provided herein for the expiration of patent applications are merely estimates based on knowledge at this time and could be altered, for example, by terminal disclaimer or if patent term extensions or adjustments are available. The patents for Lumacan including, US 6,034,267 and US 7,247,655 provide protection until March 2016. In January 2007, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued a patent covering composition of matter and kit claims for MoviPrep. The MoviPrep patent provides coverage to September 2024. Norgine, B.V. and Norgine Europe, B.V., which we refer to collectively as Norgine, own U.S. Patent No. 7,169,381 (the ‘381 patent). The ‘381 patent is listed with the FDA as protecting our MoviPrep product. Norgine licensed MoviPrep and the ‘381 patent to the Company for commercialization in the United States. Novel filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of MoviPrep in the United States prior to the September 2024 expiration of the ‘381 patent. On May 14, 2008, we and Norgine filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Novel for infringement of the ‘381 patent. Upon entry by the court on August 30, 2010 of a Consent Judgment included as an exhibit to the Settlement Agreement among the parties and Actavis, Inc., the settlement will resolve all of the parties’ outstanding claims and defenses in the lawsuit. The Consent Judgment provides that Novel’s proposed generic product, absent a license as granted to Novel under the settlement, would infringe the ‘381 patent and further provides that Novel acknowledges and agrees not to contest the validity and enforceability of the ‘381 patent. In addition to the Settlement Agreement, we have entered into a Sublicense Agreement with Norgine and Novel, as well as a Supply Agreement with Novel and Actavis and a First Amendment to License and Supply Agreement with Norgine. Under the terms of the Sublicense Agreement, we and Norgine have granted Novel a fully paid up license under the MoviPrep patents such that it is permitted to launch a generic MoviPrep product on September 24, 2018. The patent for Visicol and OsmoPrep will expire in 2013. US 7,687,075 issued 30 March 2010 and provide protection for OsmoPrep until June 2028. CDC III, LLC, owns U.S. Patent No. 5,616,346, or the ‘346 patent. The ‘346 patent is listed with the United States Food and Drug Administration as protecting our OsmoPrep product. CDC licensed OsmoPrep and the ‘346 patent to us for commercialization in the United States. In addition, we 24 Table of Contents own U.S. Patent No. 7,687,075, or the ‘075 patent, protecting OsmoPrep. Novel Laboratories, Inc., filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of OsmoPrep in the United States prior to the May 2013 expiration of the ‘346 patent and the 2024 expiration of the ‘075 patent. On September 8, 2008, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Novel for the infringement of the ‘346 patent and seeking a declaratory judgment confirming the validity of the patent. The lawsuit also joined CDC as a party. With the entry by the court of a Consent Judgment, the settlement will resolve all of the parties’ outstanding claims and defenses in the lawsuit. The Consent Judgment provides that Novel’s proposed generic product, absent a license as granted to Novel under the Sublicense Agreement described below, would infringe the ‘346 patent and further provides that Novel acknowledges and agrees not to contest the validity and enforceability of the ‘346 patent. In connection with the settlement, we entered into: a Settlement Agreement with CDC, Novel, Actavis Inc. and the general partnership of Craig Aronchick, William H. Lipshutz and Scott H. Wright (the “General Partnership”) that was the initial licensor of the ‘346 patent to Salix; a Sublicense Agreement with CDC, the General Partnership and Novel; a Supply Agreement with Novel; and, a Second Amendment to Supply Agreement with CDC and the General Partnership. Under the terms of the Sublicense Agreement, we, CDC and the General Partnership have granted Novel a fully paid up, non-exclusive license under the OsmoPrep patents such that it is permitted to launch a generic OsmoPrep product on November 16, 2019. Rifaximin is a new chemical entity and was granted five-year new chemical entity exclusivity by the FDA when it was approved in May 2004. Rifaximin, therefore, had data exclusivity until May 2009. Accordingly, the Office of Generic Drugs would have been able to accept an ANDA for Xifaxan tablets on or any time subsequent to May 2008, if the applicant made certifications of patent non-infringement or invalidity. If this occurred, a Paragraph IV notification would have to be provided to us by the applicant. Although we do not possess any specific knowledge of any such filing at the current time, the expiration of data exclusivity could result in a challenge to the related intellectual property rights of Xifaxan 200mg tablets at any time in the future. In May 2008 we submitted a Citizen Petition, requesting the director of the Office of Generic Drugs of the Food and Drug Administration impose scientifically appropriate standards for the demonstration of bioequivalence for abbreviated new drug applications citing Xifaxan as the reference listed drug. Rifaximin 550mg, which is approved for the reduction in risk of overt hepatic encephalopathy (HE) recurrence in patients > 18 years of age was granted orphan exclusivity through March 2017. Accordingly, the Office of Generic Drugs, or OGD, would have been able to accept an ANDA for Xifaxan 550mg tablets on or any time subsequent to March 2010, if the applicant made certifications of patent non-infringement or invalidity. If this occurred, a Paragraph IV notification would have to be provided to us by the applicant. Although we do not possess any specific knowledge of any such filing at the current time, the orphan exclusivity period does not prohibit the filing of an ANDA and thus, an ANDA filing could result in a challenge to the related intellectual property rights of Xifaxan 550mg tablets at any time in the future. The OGD would be unable to finally approve an ANDA until the expiration of the orphan exclusivity in March 2017. On November 3, 2010, we received a paragraph IV notification from Novel Laboratories, Inc. stating that Novel had filed an ANDA application to seek approval to market a generic version of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride ODT, 5 mg and 10 mg. The notification letter asserted non-infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,413,549 (“the ‘549 patent”). Upon examination of the relevant sections of the ANDA, we concluded that the ‘549 patent would not be enforced against Novel Laboratories. Because Azasan, Anusol-HC, Pepcid and Proctocort are mature products, there are no patents or data exclusivity rights available which subjects us to greater risk of generic competition for those products. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with collaborative partners, employees and consultants. These agreements might be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently developed by others. 25 Table of Contents Intense competition might render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in our business is intense and characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Technological developments by competitors, regulatory approval for marketing competitive products, including potential generic or over-the-counter products, or superior marketing resources possessed by competitors could adversely affect the commercial potential of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Generic competition is an increasing risk, as we have experienced with Colazal and Pepcid, and with challenges to our bowel-cleansing products’ intellectual property noted above. We believe that there are numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including large well-known pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research groups throughout the world, engaged in research and development efforts with respect to pharmaceutical products targeted at gastrointestinal diseases and conditions addressed by our current and potential products. In particular, we are aware of products in research or development by competitors that address the diseases being targeted by our products. Developments by others might render our current and potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competitors might be able to complete the development and regulatory approval process sooner and, therefore, market their products earlier than we can. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and development capabilities than we do. For example, many large, well-capitalized companies already offer products in the United States and Europe that target the indications for: • Xifaxan for HE, including lactulose (various manufacturers); • Xifaxan for travelers’ diarrhea, including ciprofloxacin, commonly known as Cipro (Bayer AG); • Visicol, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, including Colyte, Golytely, Halflytely, SuPrep, and Nulytely (Braintree) and Trilyte (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC), as well as potential generics from Novel Laboratories or others; • Apriso, including Asacol (Warner Chilcott), sulfasalazine (Pfizer), Dipentum (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC), Pentasa (Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, plc), once-a-day Lialda (Shire), and three generic balsalazide capsule products; • Xifaxan under development, including Lotronex® (Prometheus), Amitiza (Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) and Zelnorm® (Novartis), which is no longer available on the market in the United States, for IBS; and • Metozolv ODT, including Reglan• (Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC), and various generics. In addition, other products are in research or development by competitors that address the diseases and diagnostic procedures being targeted by these and our other products. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We have been in the past and might continue to be subjected to product liability claims that arise through the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. For example, we are currently and might continue to be subject to a number of product liability claims relating to OsmoPrep and Visicol in connection with their “box” label warning. We intend to defend these claims vigorously but we are currently unable to predict the outcome or to reasonably estimate the range of potential expenses or loss, if any. We currently maintain liability coverage for both clinical trials and the commercialization of our products but it is possible that this coverage, and any future coverage, will be insufficient to satisfy any liabilities that arise. We would have to assume defense of the lawsuits and be responsible for damages, fees and expenses, if any, that are awarded against us or for amounts in excess of our product liability coverage. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. In the future, we might not be able to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or might be unable to obtain adequate coverage at all. 26 Table of Contents If government and other third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our ability to derive revenues might suffer. Our success will depend in part on the extent to which government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors will pay for our products. Reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products is uncertain. In the United States and elsewhere, third-party payors, such as Medicaid, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the United States, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been passed in recent years, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Many significant changes in this legislation do not take effect until 2014, and various legal challenges and ongoing political opposition create uncertainty as to the final form of this Legislation. These changes to the healthcare system could increase our costs and reduce the amount we can charge for our drugs. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts, including those relating to Medicaid payments, might have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could increase costs and reduce or eliminate profit margins. Third-party insurance coverage might not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products might be reduced. We expect to be profitable and have positive cash flow during 2011, assuming we receive FDA approval for rifaximin in irritable bowel syndrome, but we might need additional capital. We expect to be profitable and have positive cash flow during 2011, assuming we receive FDA approval for rifaximin in irritable bowel syndrome. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with cash generated from the sale of our products will be sufficient to fund our operations for 2011 and beyond, but that might not be the case. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the results, costs and timing of our research and development activities, regulatory approvals and product launches; • the status of competitive products, including current and potential generics; • the cost and number of products we acquire or in-license; • any impact on us of current conditions and uncertainties in the economy generally and the financial markets; • patient and physician demand for our products; and • our ability to reduce our costs in the event product demand is less than expected, or regulatory approvals are delayed or more expensive than expected. If we need additional capital, we might seek additional debt or equity financing or both to fund our operations or acquisitions. If we incur more debt, we might be restricted in our ability to raise additional capital and might be subject to financial and restrictive covenants. If we issued additional equity, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We might also enter into additional collaborative arrangements that could provide us with additional funding in the form of equity, debt, licensing, milestone and/or royalty payments. We might not be able to enter into such arrangements or raise any additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, especially in the current economic environment. Our common stock is likely to decrease in value if the market believes that we will be unable to return to profitability, or that we will be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part on our success in in-licensing or acquiring additional pharmaceutical products. We currently intend to in-license or acquire additional pharmaceutical products, as we did with crofelemer and budesonide, that have been developed beyond the initial discovery phase and for which late-stage human 27 Table of Contents clinical data is already available, or as we did with Pepcid Oral Suspension, that has already received regulatory approval. These kinds of pharmaceutical products might not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we might incur significant additional expense in connection with the development and, if approved by the FDA, marketing of these products. We are dependent on third parties to supply us with products. We rely entirely on third parties to supply us with our commercially marketed products and our products under development. For example, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., a corporation organized and located in India, manufactures and supplies us with drug substance for crofelemer, an anti-secretory agent that we are developing for the treatment of HIV-associated diarrhea. The raw material used in production of the crofelemer drug substance grows in select countries in South America. The amount of resources Glenmark devotes to these activities and its ability to successfully obtain raw material is not within our control. Failure by Glenmark to manufacture and supply us with crofelemer drug substance, whether due to international, political or economic conditions or otherwise, could delay development, increase expenses, delay regulatory approval, or eventually prevent us from generating revenue from crofelemer, if approved, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Likewise, interruption of supply of any of our other products, whether for clinical use or commercial use, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products. We own no manufacturing facilities, and we have limited capabilities in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We do not generally expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of products, but instead contract with and rely on third-party vendors for these services. A limited number of contract manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our marketed products and our product candidates. We might fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or might contract with manufacturers on terms that may not be entirely acceptable to us. For example, we filed an NDA for balsalazide tablets in July 2007, and received a complete response letter from the FDA in April 2010. The sole issue raised in this letter concerns a deficiency of the manufacturing facility for this application. Given our ongoing dependence on third party vendors for supply of material for use in clinical trials and for commercial product, our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: • the manufacture of products might be difficult to scale up when required and result in delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products; • some of our contracts contain purchase commitments that require us to make minimum purchases that might exceed our needs or limit our ability to negotiate with other manufacturers, which might increase costs; • the cost of manufacturing certain products might make them prohibitively expensive; • delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change in manufacturers could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; • manufacturers are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by the third-party manufacturers; • if we need to change manufacturers, transfers of technical expertise would be required which would include educating the new manufacturer in the processes necessary for the production of our products, which may not be successful; and • if we need to change manufacturers, FDA and comparable foreign regulators may require additional testing and compliance inspections prior to the new manufacturer being qualified for the production of our products. 28 Table of Contents Failure to comply with manufacturing regulation could harm us financially and could hurt our reputation. We and our third-party manufacturers, such as Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. that produces crofelemer drug substance, are also required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations which include requirements relating to manufacturing, packaging, documentation, quality control, and quality assurance. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products. For example, in April 2010 we received a complete response letter from the FDA regarding our NDA for Giazo. In the complete response letter there were no requests for new pre–clinical or clinical trials. The sole issue raised in this letter concerned a deficiency of the manufacturing facility for this application. The manufacturer has responded to the FDA and continues to work with the FDA to resolve the matter, however the manufacturer has not resolved these issues and we have been unable to receive approval or launch Giazo. Such facilities are subject to periodic FDA inspection. Manufacturing regulations can increase our expenses and delay production, either of which could reduce our margins. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including: • delays, warning letters and fines; • product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; • refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; • total or partial suspension of production; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, the occurrence of manufacturing-related compliance issues could cause subsequent withdrawal of the drug approval, reformulation of the drug product, additional testing or changes in labeling of the finished product. Our results of operations might fluctuate from period to period, and a failure to meet the expectations of investors or the financial community at large could result in a decline in our stock price. As they have in the past, our results of operations might fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis due to, among other factors: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • the level of revenue generated by commercialized products, including potential increased purchases of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of potential price increases or introductions of new dosages or bottle sizes, and subsequent lower than expected revenue as the inventory is used; • the timing of any up-front payments that might be required in connection with any future acquisition of product rights; • the timing of milestone payments that might be required to our current or future licensors; • fluctuations in our development and other costs in connection with ongoing product development programs; • the level of marketing and other expenses required in connection with product launches and ongoing product growth; • the timing of the acquisition and integration of businesses, assets, products and technologies; and • general and industry-specific business and economic conditions. 29 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile and might continue to be, making owning our stock risky. Between January 1, 2007 and February 25, 2011, the price of a share of our common stock varied from a low of $5.07 to a high of $49.05. In 2010, there were thirteen days on which our stock price increased or decreased by 5% or more. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the performance of particular companies, including as a result of the current credit and economic crisis. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in the past been and can in the future be expected to be especially volatile. Announcements of prescription trends, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, generic approvals, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, might have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Antitakeover provisions could discourage a takeover that stockholders consider to be in their best interests or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a number of provisions that could have antitakeover effects or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a stockholder protection rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. The rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights plan will not prevent an acquisition that is approved by our board of directors. We believe our rights plan assisted in our successful defense against a hostile takeover bid earlier in 2003. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to determine the terms of up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and issue them without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, voting control in order to remove our current directors and management. Our bylaws also eliminate the ability of the stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting or make proposals at stockholder meetings without giving us advance written notice, which could hinder the ability of stockholders to quickly take action that might be opposed by management. These provisions could make more difficult the removal of current directors and management or a takeover of Salix, even if these events could be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 