Item 1A. Risk Factors Any investment in our company will be subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We Have Experienced Substantial Negative Cash Flows And May Continue To Experience Such Negative Cash Flows, Which Would Have A Further Significant Adverse Effect On Our Business, Impair Our Ability To Support Our Operations And Adversely Affect Our Liquidity. We have experienced substantial negative cash flows during the five years ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to sharp declines in our revenues and our inability to reduce our expenses to a level at or below the level of our revenues. Additionally, in 2005 we disposed of operations that generated positive income and cash flow. We used the proceeds from these disposals to pay down existing debt. Although we implemented restructuring activities in early 2005 focused on, among other things, further reducing our workforce and decreasing continued development of the functionality of certain of our products, a failure to maintain expense levels, stabilize or grow revenues, achieve positive cash flows and obtain additional equity or debt financing as needed will impair our ability to support our operations, adversely affect our liquidity and threaten our ability to repay our debts when they come due, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition as well as our stock price. Additionally, we continue to be obligated to pay approximately $5.6 million annually in interest on our $111.3 million face value of convertible notes, which includes the additional $7.5 million of notes issued in January 2006 pursuant to the exercise of the over-allotment option. Continued negative cash flows and the adverse market perception associated therewith may continue to negatively affect our ability to sell our products and maintain existing customer relationships and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing on advantageous terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining an adequate level of cash resources and we may be forced to act more aggressively in the future in the area of expense reduction in order to conserve cash resources. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We Have A Negative Net Working Capital Balance Which May Require Additional Private Or Public Debt Or Equity Financing To Meet Working Capital Needs And To Repay Our Existing Debt When It Becomes Due. This May Have A Substantial Dilutive Effect On The Holdings Of Existing Stockholders. Such Financing May Only Be Available On Disadvantageous Terms, Or May Not Be Available At All. We Have $25 million of 5.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes That Are Due In December 2006 And Our Working Capital May Be Insufficient To Repay These Notes. At December 31, 2005, we had a negative net working capital balance of $34.3 million. Our cash position may continue to decline in the future, primarily due to cash outflows associated with our operations, our debt service obligations and our prior restructuring activities. Unless we are able to maintain expense levels, stabilize or grow revenues and achieve consistent positive cash flows, our ability to support our operations and our liquidity may be further impaired. We may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining an adequate level of cash resources. We have $25.0 million of debt that matures in December 2006. We may be required to seek additional private or public debt or equity financing in order to support our operations and repay our outstanding indebtedness. However, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms or at all, and any new financing will likely have a substantial dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. Our 5% Senior Convertible Notes Contain Covenants That Restrict Our Ability To Incur Additional Indebtedness. Our 5% senior convertible notes contain financial covenants that, among other things, place restrictions on the amount and type of additional indebtedness that we can incur. Based on certain conditions we are limited to additional unsecured borrowings of $25 million and limitations of secured borrowings based on EBITDA levels. Our Financial Results Have Varied And May Continue To Vary Significantly From Quarter To Quarter And We May Again Fail To Meet Expectations, Which Might Negatively Impact The Price Of Our Stock. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect our operating results to continue to vary from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Although our revenues are subject to fluctuation, significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term, such as our lease and purchase commitments and debt servicing expense. If we cannot reduce expenses quickly to respond to decreases in revenues, a revenue shortfall is likely to adversely and disproportionately affect our operating results. These factors have caused our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in the past and may do so again in the future. Our failure to meet or exceed analyst and investor expectations might negatively affect the price of our common stock. Continued Decreased Levels Of Demand For Our Enterprise Products And Services Could Significantly Reduce Our Revenues. Historically, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from licenses of our enterprise products and related services. Our enterprise products principally include solutions to address supply and demand management, transportation and distribution management, execution and collaboration, supplier relationship management, as well as data management and analytics. We expect software solution revenues and maintenance and consulting contracts related to our enterprise products to continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We have experienced a sharp decrease in the demand for our enterprise products and related services due to a number of factors, including sales execution, product competitiveness and questions regarding our viability, which have led to a decline in our revenues. Other factors, such as competition and technological change and the existing and potential litigation and other proceedings against us, could also adversely impact demand for, or market acceptance of, these applications. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If We Are Unable To Develop And Generate Demand For Our Products, Additional Serious Harm Could Result To Our Business. We have invested significant resources in developing and marketing our products and services. The demand for, and market acceptance of, our products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Adoption of software solutions, particularly by those individuals and enterprises that have historically relied upon traditional means of commerce and communication, requires a broad acceptance of substantially different methods of conducting business and exchanging information. Our products and services are often considered complex and may involve a new approach to the conduct of business by our customers. As a result, intensive marketing and sales efforts may be necessary to educate prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of these products and services in order to generate demand. The market for our products and services may continue to weaken, competitors may develop superior products and services or we may fail to develop acceptable solutions to address new market conditions. Any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We May Not Be Competitive, And Increased Competition Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Relative to us, many of our competitors have one or more of the following advantages: • Longer operating history. • Greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources. • Consistent positive cash flows. • Historical profitable operations. • Superior product functionality in certain areas. • Greater name recognition. • A broader range of products to offer. • Better software performance. • A larger installed base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products, which may result in increased competition. In addition, we expect to experience increasing price competition as we compete for market share. We understand that some competitors are offering enterprise application software at no charge as components of product bundles. Further, traditional enterprise resource planning vendors have focused more resources on the development and marketing of enterprise application software, particularly in the product and industry segments in which we compete and, increasingly, corporate information technology departments are undertaking internal development efforts. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. We Have Been And Continue To Be Subject To Claims Pertaining To The Quality Of Our Products And Services, And Questions Regarding Our Financial Viability, Which Claims And Perceptions, If Unresolved Or Not Addressed, Could Continue To Seriously Harm Our Business And Our Stock Price. From time to time, customers make claims pertaining to the quality and performance of our software and services, citing a variety of issues. Our recent operating performance, our historic negative net cash position, the long-term decline in our stock price, and the existing and potential litigation and other proceedings against us have led to questions in the market regarding our financial viability. Whether customer claims regarding the quality and performance of our products and services or concerns about our financial viability are founded or unfounded, if such claims and perceptions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may continue to 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements adversely impact customer demand and affect the market perception of our company, our products and our services. Any such damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition and could negatively affect the price of our stock. We Face Risks Related To Ongoing Governmental Investigations And Litigation That Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Relationships With Customers And Our Business, Results Of Operations, Cash Flow and Financial Condition And We May Face Additional Litigation In The Future That Could Also Harm Our Business. In March 2003, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation to determine whether there had been violations of the federal securities laws by us and/or others involved with us in connection with matters relating to the 2003 restatement of our consolidated financial statements. The settlement of the SEC enforcement proceedings, announced on June 9, 2004 and described in Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, covers the company only. On July 15, 2005, the SEC filed a civil action against three former officers of the company: Gregory A. Brady, William M. Beecher and Reagan L. Lancaster. The complaint relates to events that occurred prior to the restatement of the company’s financial statements in 2003. We continue to cooperate with the staff of the SEC and we are also cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Texas, which has also been investigating certain matters relating to our restatement. We currently face a lawsuit recently brought against us by Kmart and a potential assessment by the Internal Revenue Service relating to the timing of the company’s remittance of withholding taxes associated with the exercise of stock options by employees in the 2000 tax year. We may face additional litigation in the future that could harm our business and impair our liquidity. We are generally obligated, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some of these lawsuits. Defending against existing and potential litigation and other proceedings may continue to require significant attention and resources of our management. We cannot assure you that the significant time and effort spent will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The Loss Of Certain Of Our Key Personnel And Any Future Potential Losses Of Key Personnel Or Our Failure To Attract Additional Personnel Could Seriously Harm Our Company. We rely upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. We have lost a number of key personnel as a result of our performance and our restructurings, among other reasons, and we believe our voluntary attrition rate is generally higher than the software industry’s average. Our workforce reductions have impacted employees directly responsible for sales, which may affect our ability to close revenue transactions with our customers and prospects, and consulting, which may affect customer satisfaction. Our future success depends on retaining our key employees and our ability to retain, attract and train other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel, which may be increasingly difficult given our recent financial performance and employee layoffs. Additional changes to our organizational structure may result in further voluntary and involuntary attrition and loss of key personnel. Our employees can typically resign with little or no prior notice. Our loss of any more of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, and the intellectual capital that they possess, or our inability to retain, attract and train additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Restructuring and Reorganization Initiatives Have Been Executed, And Such Activities Pose Significant Risks To Our Business. Restructuring initiatives were recently executed by us in an effort to achieve our profitability objectives. This restructuring involved, among other things, reducing our workforce and decreasing continued development of functionality for certain of our products. These activities pose significant risks to our business, including the risk that terminated employees will disparage the company, file legal claims against us related to their termination of employment, become employed by competitors or share our intellectual property or other sensitive information with others and that the reorganization will not achieve targeted efficiencies. The failure to retain and effectively manage our remaining employees or achieve our targeted efficiencies through the reorganization could increase our costs, adversely affect our development efforts and impact the quality of our products and customer service. If customers become dissatisfied with our products or service, our maintenance renewals may decrease, our customers may take legal action against us and our sales to existing customers could decline, leading to reduced revenues. Additionally, during 2005, we announced the reorganization of our sales and services operating structure from primarily geographic to primarily industry-focused field groups. Failure to achieve the desired results of our strategic initiatives would harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Because Our Software Products Are Intended To Work Within Complex Business Processes, Implementation Or Upgrades Of Our Products Can Be Difficult, Time-Consuming And Expensive, And Customers May Be Unable To Implement Or Upgrade Our Products Successfully Or Otherwise Achieve The Benefits Attributable To Our Products. This May Result In Customer Dissatisfaction, Harm To Our Reputation And Cause Non-Payment Issues. Our products typically must integrate with the many existing computer systems and software programs of our customers. This can be complex, time-consuming and expensive, and may cause delays in the deployment of our products. As a result, some customers may have difficulty implementing our products successfully or otherwise achieving the benefits attributable to our products. Delayed or ineffective implementation or upgrades of our software and services may limit our sales opportunities, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our reputation, or cause non-payment issues. Failure To Complete Development Projects As Planned Could Harm Our Operating Results And Create Business Distractions And Negative Publicity That Could Harm Our Business. Risks associated with our software solutions and other development projects include, but are not limited to: • Customers may withhold cash payments or cancel contracts if we fail to meet our delivery commitments, the customers have financial difficulties or change strategy, or the functionality delivered is not acceptable to the customers. We are particularly susceptible to this with respect to arrangements where payments are scheduled to occur later in the engagement. • The cancellation or scaling back of one or more of our larger software solutions and other development projects could have a material adverse impact on future software solution revenues. • We may be unable to recognize revenue associated with software solutions and other development projects in accordance with expectations. We generally recognize revenue from software solutions and other development projects over time using the contract method of accounting. Failure to complete project phases in accordance with the overall project plan can create variability in our expected revenue streams if we are not able to recognize revenues related to particular projects because of delays in development. • Many of our software solutions and other development projects are fixed-price arrangements. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project or the customer attempts to change the scope of the project, the profit, if any, realized from the project would be adversely affected to the extent that we have to add additional resources to complete the project. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If We Fail To Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights Or Face A Claim Of Intellectual Property Infringement By A Third Party, We Could Lose Our Intellectual Property Rights Or Be Liable For Significant Damages. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. However, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. This is particularly true in India, where a significant portion of our Solutions Operations are located, and other foreign countries such as China and Russia where the laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and may not provide us with an effective remedy against piracy. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. Any litigation to defend our intellectual property rights could be time-consuming and costly. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. As a result, we may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation or damages, cause product shipment delays or the loss or deferral of sales, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If we enter into royalty or licensing agreements in settlement of any litigation or claims, these agreements may not be on terms favorable to us. Unfavorable royalty and licensing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Certain Of Our Customers Purchase Our Software, But Delay Or Terminate Its Implementation. If This Type Of Activity Becomes Significant, It Could Harm Our Ability To Sell To Existing Customers And Impact Our Maintenance and Services Revenues. Certain of our existing customers delay or terminate implementations of our software due to budgetary constraints related to economic uncertainty, dissatisfaction with product quality, the difficulty of prioritizing a surplus of information technology projects, changes in business strategy, personnel or priorities or for other reasons. Such customers may be less likely to invest in additional software in the future and to continue to pay for software maintenance. Since our business relies to a large extent upon sales to existing customers and since maintenance and services revenues are key elements of our revenue base, any reduction in these sales or these maintenance and services payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our Software May Contain Errors Which Could Result In The Loss Of Customers And Reputation, Adverse Publicity, Loss Of Revenues, Delays In Market Acceptance, Diversion of Development Resources And Claims Against Us By Customers. Our software programs may contain errors. Although we conduct testing and quality assurance through a release management process, we may not discover errors until our customers install and use a given product or until the volume of services that a product provides increases. On occasion, we have experienced delays in the scheduled introduction of new and enhanced products because of errors. Errors could result in loss of customers and reputation, adverse publicity, loss of revenues, delays in market acceptance, diversion of development and consulting resources and claims against us by customers. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure Or Circumvention Of Our Controls And Procedures Or Failure To Comply With Regulations Related To Controls And Procedures Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Over time, we have made significant changes in and may consider making additional changes to our internal controls, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure of our controls, policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We May Have Difficulty Obtaining And Maintaining Cost-Effective Insurance, Which May Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Results Of Operations, Cash Flow and Financial Condition. We obtain insurance to cover a variety of potential risks and liabilities. In the future, it may become more difficult to maintain insurance coverage at reasonable levels, or if such coverage is available, the cost to obtain or maintain it may increase substantially. This may result in our being forced to bear the burden of an increased portion of risks for which we have traditionally been covered by insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We May Not Be Successful In Convincing Customers To Migrate To Current Or Future Releases Of Our Products, Which May Lead To Reduced Consulting And Maintenance Revenues And Less Future Business From Existing Customers. Our customers may not be willing to incur the costs or invest the resources necessary to complete upgrades to current or future releases of our products. This may lead to our loss of consulting and maintenance revenues and future business from customers that continue to operate prior versions of our products or choose to no longer use our products. If We Fail To Derive Benefits From Our Existing And Future Strategic Relationships, Our Business Will Suffer. From time to time, we have collaborated with other companies in areas such as marketing, distribution or implementation. Maintaining these and other relationships is a meaningful part of our business strategy. However, some of our current and potential strategic partners are either actual or potential competitors, which may impair the viability of these relationships. In addition, some of our relationships have failed to meet expectations and may fail to meet expectations in the future. A failure by us to maintain existing strategic relationships or enter into successful new strategic relationships in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Serious Harm To Our Business Could Result If Our Encryption Technology Fails To Ensure The Security Of Our Customers’ Online Transactions. The secure exchange of confidential information over public networks is a significant concern of consumers engaging in on-line transactions and interaction. Some of our software applications use encryption technology to provide the security necessary to affect the secure exchange of valuable and confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that these applications use to protect customer transaction data. If any compromise or breach were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We Are Dependent On Third-Party Software That We Incorporate Into And Include With Our Products And Solutions And Impaired Relations With These Third Parties, Defects In Third-Party Software Or The Inability To Enhance Their Software Over Time Could Harm Our Business. We incorporate and include third-party software into and with certain of our products and solutions. Additionally, we may incorporate and include additional third-party software into and with our products and solutions in future product offerings. The operation of our products could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the development and maintenance of the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to make their software available to us on acceptable terms, to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the software capabilities, or to remain in business. Further, it may be difficult for us to replace any third-party software if a vendor seeks to terminate our license to the software or our ability to license the software to customers. Any impairment in our relationship with these third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We Face Risks Associated With International Sales And Operations That Could Harm Our Company. International revenues accounted for approximately 47% of our total revenues during 2005, and we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from international sales in the future. Our international operations are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including the tendency of markets outside of the U.S. to be more volatile and difficult to forecast than the U.S. market. Any of the following factors, among other things, could adversely affect the success of our international operations: • Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing geographically disparate operations. • Extended accounts receivable collection cycles in certain countries. • Compliance with a variety of foreign business practices, laws and regulations. • Overlap of different tax structures and regimes. • Meeting import and export licensing requirements. • Trade restrictions. • Changes in tariff rates. • Changes in general economic and political conditions in international markets. The Expansion Of Our Operations In India Poses Significant Risks That Could Impair Our Ability To Develop Our Products, Implement Our Products Or Put Our Products At A Competitive Disadvantage. We have shifted a large portion of our software solutions and other development and services capacity to India. However, we may not fully achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate from this program and we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient numbers of developers and consultants with the necessary skill sets in India to meet our needs. The distributed nature of our development and consulting resources could create further operational challenges and complications. Additionally, we have a heightened risk exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India. Operational issues, recruiting and retention issues, ability to obtain work permits, economic and political instability, military actions and other unforeseen occurrences in India could impair our ability to develop and introduce new software applications and functionality in a timely manner, or hinder our ability to provide cost-competitive services, either of which could put our products at a competitive disadvantage and cause us to lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We May Not Successfully Integrate The Products, Technologies Or Businesses From, Or Realize The Intended Benefits Of, Acquisitions, And We May Make Future Acquisitions Or Enter Into Joint Ventures That Are Not Successful, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Historically, we have acquired technology or businesses to supplement and expand our product offerings. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business. Negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures and our integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue equity securities that would dilute your ownership of us, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets, or write off in-process research and development and other acquisition-related expenses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may not be able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses with our existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired businesses, or combine potentially different corporate cultures. Failure to do so could deprive us of the intended benefits of those acquisitions. In addition, we may be required to write-off acquired research and development if further development of purchased technology becomes unfeasible, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Changes In The Value Of The U.S. Dollar, As Compared To The Currencies Of Foreign Countries Where We Transact Business, Could Harm Our Operating Results. To date, our international revenues have been denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars. However, the majority of our international expenses, including the wages of approximately 63% of our employees, have been denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. We have implemented limited hedging programs to mitigate our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting international accounts receivable, cash balances and intercompany accounts, but we do not hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting future international revenues and expenses and other commitments. For the foregoing reasons, currency exchange rate fluctuations have caused, and likely will continue to cause, variability in our foreign currency denominated revenue streams and our cost to settle foreign currency denominated liabilities. We May Become Subject To Product Liability Claims That Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Our software products generally are used by our customers in mission-critical applications where component failures could cause significant damages. To mitigate this exposure, our license agreements typically seek to limit our exposure to product liability claims from our customers. However, these contract provisions may not preclude all potential claims. Additionally, our insurance policies may be inadequate to protect us from all liability that we may face. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any claim, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Fully Realize The Benefits Of Our Deferred Tax Assets. If we do not achieve sufficient domestic federal taxable income in future years to utilize all or some of our net operating loss carryforwards, they will expire, and we will be unable to fully realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related To Our Industry If Our Products Are Not Able To Deliver Fast, Demonstrable Value To Our Customers, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. Enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide faster time to value on their technology investments. We must continue to improve the speed of our implementations and the pace at which our products deliver value or our competitors may gain important strategic advantages over us. If we cannot successfully respond to these market demands, or if our competitors do so more effectively than we do, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Releases Of And Problems With New Products May Cause Purchasing Delays, Which Would Harm Our Revenues. Our practice and the practice in the industry is to periodically develop and release new products and enhancements. As a result, customers may delay their purchasing decisions in anticipation of our new or enhanced products, or products of competitors. Delays in customer purchasing decisions could seriously harm our business and operating results. Moreover, significant delays in the general availability of new releases, significant problems in the installation or implementation of new releases, or customer dissatisfaction with new releases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related To Our Stock Our Stock Price Historically Has Been Volatile, Which May Make It More Difficult To Resell Common Stock At Attractive Prices. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and may continue to be volatile in the future. The following factors could significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • Negative cash flows. • Additional equity or debt financing transactions. • Continued quarterly variations in our results of operations. • The market or system on which our common stock trades. • Announcement of new customers, new products, product enhancements, joint ventures and other alliances by our competitors or us. • Technological innovations by our competitors or us. • Stock valuations or performance of our competitors. • General market conditions, geopolitical events or market conditions specific to particular industries. • Perceptions in the marketplace of performance problems involving our products and services. In particular, the stock prices of many companies in the technology and emerging growth sectors have fluctuated widely, often due to events unrelated to their operating performance. These fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock. If We Are Unsuccessful In Maintaining The Listing Of Our Common Stock On The NASDAQ National Market, Our Business Reputation May Be Harmed and Our Ability To Raise Funds In The Capital Markets Might Be Adversely Affected. On July 21, 2005, our common stock was re-listed by The NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel and began trading on The NASDAQ National Market. In the future, our common stock price may decline to levels that 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements would again cause us not to comply with NASDAQ listing standards. Any failure to maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ National Market might harm our general business reputation and be a consideration for investors when considering an investment in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our Executive Officers And Directors, In Particular Sanjiv Sidhu And An Affiliate Of Q Investments, Have Significant Influence Over Stockholder Votes. As of March 1, 2006, our current executive officers and directors together beneficially owned approximately 31.2% of the total voting power of our company, approximately 26.6% of which was beneficially owned by Sanjiv Sidhu, our current Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer and President, and entities that he controls. Further, an affiliate of Q Investments beneficially owns approximately 22.9% of the voting power of the company, and has the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Sidhu, the Q Investments affiliate and our officers and directors holding or controlling holdings of stock in our company have had and will have significant influence in determining the composition of our Board of Directors and other significant matters requiring stockholder approval or acquiescence, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a substantial sale of assets, a merger or similar corporate transaction or a non-negotiated takeover attempt. Such concentration of ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making an offer to buy our company that other stockholders might find favorable, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Charter And Bylaws Have Anti-Takeover Provisions And We Have A Stockholder Rights Plan Which, In Combination, Effectively Inhibit A Non-Negotiated Merger Or Business Combination. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 