Item 1A Risk Factors You should consider carefully the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business and financial performance depend on the level of activity in the natural gas and oil industries. Our operations are materially dependent upon the levels of activity in natural gas and oil exploration, development and production. These activity levels are affected by both short-term and long-term trends in natural gas and oil prices. In recent years, natural gas and oil prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, have experienced significant fluctuations. Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price volatility. A prolonged reduction in natural gas and oil prices would depress the level of natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and well completions activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if new processes are developed to replace hydraulic fracturing. Substantially all of our products are proppants used in the completion and re-completion of natural gas and oil wells through the process of hydraulic fracturing. The development of new processes for the completion of natural gas and oil wells leading to a reduction in or discontinuation of the use of the hydraulic fracturing process could cause a decline in demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by decreased demand for ceramic proppant or the development by our competitors of effective alternative proppants. Ceramic proppant is a premium product capable of withstanding higher pressure and providing more highly conductive fractures than mined sand, which is the most commonly used proppant type. Although we believe that the use of ceramic proppant generates higher production rates and more favorable production economics than mined sand, a significant shift in demand from ceramic proppant to mined sand could have a material adverse effect on our 9 Table of Contents results of operations and financial condition. The development and use of effective alternative proppant could also cause a decline in demand for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon, and receive a significant percentage of our revenues from, a limited number of key customers. During 2006, our largest customers were, in alphabetical order, BJ Services Company, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. and Schlumberger Limited, the three largest participants in the worldwide petroleum pressure pumping industry. Although the end users of our products are numerous operators of natural gas and oil wells that hire the pressure pumping service companies to hydraulically fracture wells, these three customers accounted collectively for approximately 70% of our 2006 revenues. We generally supply our domestic pumping service customers with products on a just-in-time basis, with transactions governed by individual purchase orders. Continuing sales of product depend on our direct customers and the end user well operators being satisfied with both product quality and delivery performance. Although we believe our relations with our customers and the major well operators are satisfactory, a material decline in the level of sales to any one of our major customers due to unsatisfactory product performance, delivery delays or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain patents. We own four United States patents and one Argentinean patent relating to ceramic proppant. These patents generally cover the manufacture and use of our products. The U.S. patents expire at various times in the years 2006 through 2019, with two key product patents expiring in 2006 and one key patent expiring in 2009. We believe that these patents have been and will continue to be important in enabling us to compete in the market to supply proppant to the natural gas and oil industry. There can be no assurance that our patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors in the future or will provide us with any competitive advantage, or that other companies will not be able to market functionally similar products without violating our patent rights. In addition, if our patents are challenged, there can be no assurance that they will be upheld. The entry of additional competitors into the market to supply ceramic proppant following expiration of our U.S. patent rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In November of 2006, the U.S. patent related to the Company’s CARBOPROP® product expired. Given that only a limited period of time has passed since the patent’s expiry, the Company has not yet gathered sufficient data to provide projections on whether the expiry will have a material impact on overall sales. We intend to enforce and have in the past vigorously enforced our patents. We are involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our patent rights. We operate in an increasingly competitive market. We compete with at least two other principal suppliers of ceramic proppant, as well as with suppliers of sand and resin-coated sand for use as proppant, in the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and oil wells. The proppant market is highly competitive and no one supplier is dominant. The expiration of key patents owned by the Company may result in additional competition in the market for ceramic proppant. Significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of natural gas is unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Natural gas is a significant component of our direct manufacturing costs and price escalations will likely increase our operating expenses and can have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We operate in a competitive marketplace and may not be able to pass through all of the increased costs that could result from an increase in the cost of natural gas. 10 Table of Contents We are exposed to increased costs associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards We have expended significant resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules. Our compliance effort has resulted in increased expenses and these expenses are expected to continue. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. We use some hazardous substances and generate certain industrial wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. International revenues accounted for approximately 34%, 40% and 47% of our total revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • currency rate fluctuations, convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to risks associated with our production facilities in Luoyang, China, and Kopeysk, Russia. The legal systems in both China and Russia are still developing and are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in both countries could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of 11 Table of Contents each country’s law. Further, if manufacturing in either region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales and/or profitability could be negatively impacted. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly. The market price of the common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly, in response to various factors and events, including the following: • the liquidity of the market for our common stock; • differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • new statutes or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing statutes and regulations affecting our business; • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • broad market fluctuations. Our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements we make. Some of the statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to trends in the natural gas and oil industries, the demand for ceramic proppant and our performance in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” sections of this Form 10-K. In addition, we have made and may continue to make forward-looking statements in other filings with the SEC, and in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. (See “Business — Forward-Looking Information.”) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 