Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of Colazal, Xifaxan and our other marketed products might be less than expected. We currently market and sell nine primary products, with a majority of our historical revenue derived from sales of Colazal. We expect Xifaxan, which was launched in mid-2004, OsmoPrep, which we acquired in connection with our acquisition of InKine in September 2005, and MoviPrep, which we acquired from Norgine in December 2005, to be a growing and significant source of revenue in the future. If sales of our marketed products decline or if we experience product returns significantly in excess of estimated amounts recorded, particularly Colazal, Xifaxan, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community will depend upon a number of factors including: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • perceptions by physicians and other members of the healthcare community regarding the safety and efficacy of the products; • competitive developments, such as the launch of Lialda; • price increases, and the price of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • patient and physician demand; • adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or other drugs in our class; 14 Table of Contents • the results of product development efforts for new indications; • the scope and timing of additional marketing approvals and favorable reimbursement programs for expanded uses; • availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the products; and • our success in getting other companies to distribute our products outside of the U.S. gastroenterology market. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part on our success in in-licensing or acquiring additional pharmaceutical products. We currently intend to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products, like Sanvar, that have been developed beyond the initial discovery phase and for which late-stage human clinical data is already available, or like Pepcid Oral Suspension, that have already received regulatory approval. These kinds of pharmaceutical products might not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we might incur significant additional expense in connection with the development and, if approved by the FDA, marketing of these products. In addition, our license agreement with Alfa Wassermann provides that we may not promote, distribute or sell any antibiotic product that competes with Xifaxan in the United States and Canada until mid-2009, thereby limiting our ability to acquire, develop or market other antibiotic products. Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our products. Development, manufacture and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. This regulation could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell our product candidates, including specifically Sanvar, our product candidate that is farthest along in the regulatory approval process. As an example, FDA approval of MoviPrep was delayed from May until August 2006 to resolve regulatory issues. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: • the drug is not effective; • patients experience severe side effects during treatment; • appropriate patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected, as has been the case with our Xifaxan Phase III trial in Thailand for the prevention of travelers’ diarrhea; • drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or • we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. We are developing granulated mesalamine as a treatment for ulcerative colitis and Sanvar as a treatment for acute esophageal variceal bleeding, as well as studying Xifaxan for other indications. We might not ever receive FDA approval for these compounds in these indications, and without FDA approval, we cannot market or sell these compounds for use in these indications. Approval might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, such as with Colazal, Xifaxan Visicol, OsmoPrep, and MoviPrep, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them might impair our ability to effectively market our products. We and our third-party manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality 15 Table of Contents assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products, and they are subject to additional FDA inspection. If we fail to comply with any of the FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including: • delays, warning letters and fines; • product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; • refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; • total or partial suspension of production; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, identification of side effects after a drug is on the market or the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional testing or changes in labeling of the product. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection. Our intellectual property rights with respect to our products might not afford us with meaningful protection from generic and other competition. In addition, because our strategy is to in-license or acquire pharmaceutical products which typically have been discovered and initially researched by others, future products might have limited or no remaining patent protection due to the time elapsed since their discovery. Competitors could also design around any of our intellectual property or otherwise design competitive products that do not infringe our intellectual property. Upon patent expiration, our drugs could be subject to generic competition. That could negatively affect our pricing and sales volume. The patents for the balsalazide composition of matter and method of treating ulcerative colitis with balsalazide expired in July 2001 in the United States and our extension of the patents under the Waxman-Hatch Act expired in July 2006. Patent extensions for the composition of balsalazide in Italy and the United Kingdom also expired in July 2006. The patents for the rifaximin composition of matter (also covering a process of making rifaximin and using rifaximin to treat gastrointestinal infectious diseases) expired in May 2001 in the United States and Canada. We filed applications for patents for additional indications using balsalazide and related chemical substances. Applications for patents for additional compositions of rifaxamin and related chemical substances we filed together with Alfa Wasserman were issued in May 2006 and extend patent coverage to 2024. In January 2007, the United States Patent Office issued a patent covering composition of matter and kit claims for MoviPrep. The MoviPrep patent provides coverage to September 2024. The patents for Visicol and OsmoPrep will expire in 2013. Additional patent protection is being sought for OsmoPrep that, if approved, will expire in 2024. The patent for the treatment of the intestinal tract with the granulated mesalamine product will expire in 2018. The patent for Sanvar expired in 2006; however, we will be applying for patent Term Restoration. There is no assurance that these patents or the patent term restoration will be issued. In 2000, the FDA granted us new chemical entity data exclusivity for balsalazide to July 2006. In August 2006, this data exclusivity was extended for six months, until January 8, 2007, based upon the FDA’s acceptance of the clinical package the Company submitted in response to a Written Request received from the FDA. Consequently, the FDA could not approve an application for a competitive version of balsalazide which relies upon data included in our NDA. Therefore, unless an applicant for a competitive version of balsalazide were to develop its own data supporting approval of our NDA, this data exclusivity had the effect of preventing generic competition for balsalazide until at least January 8, 2007. Because rifaximin is a new chemical entity, the FDA granted us similar five-year exclusivity for it when it was approved in May 2004. Therefore, rifaximin has data exclusivity through May 2009. Because Sanvar is a new chemical entity, the product is entitled to data exclusivity for five years beginning from the date of the approval of our NDA for Sanvar. In April 2005, the Company submitted a Citizen Petition and subsequent supplements in July and November 2006, respectively, requesting that the director of the Office of Generic Drugs of the Food and Drug Administration adopt guidance applicable to orally administered, locally-acting gastrointestinal drug products prior to approval of any generic versions of such drugs. 16 Table of Contents Because Azasan, Anusol-HC and Proctocort are older products, there are no patents or data exclusivity rights available, subjecting us to greater risk of generic competition for those products. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with collaborative partners, employees and consultants. These agreements might be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently developed by others. Any litigation that we become involved in to enforce intellectual property rights could result in substantial cost to us. In addition, claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could be costly. Our patent or other proprietary rights related to our products might conflict with the current or future intellectual property rights of others. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, might be necessary to defend any patents to which we have rights and our other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of patent and intellectual property claims is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling one or more of our products. We might not be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology that we require to conduct our business, or, if obtainable, that technology might not be available at a reasonable cost. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We might be subjected to product liability claims that arise through the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Although we currently maintain liability coverage for both clinical trials and the commercialization of our products, it is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to satisfy any liabilities that may arise. In the future, we might not be able to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or might be unable to obtain adequate coverage at all. Intense competition might render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in our business is intense and characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Technological developments by competitors, regulatory approval for marketing competitive products, including potential generic or over-the-counter products, or superior marketing resources possessed by competitors could adversely affect the commercial potential of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We believe that there are numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including large well-known pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research groups throughout the world, engaged in research and development efforts with respect to pharmaceutical products targeted at gastrointestinal diseases and conditions addressed by our current and potential products. In particular, we are aware of products in research or development by competitors that address the diseases being targeted by our products. Developments by others might render our current and potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competitors might be able to complete the development and regulatory approval process sooner and, therefore, market their products earlier than we can. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and development capabilities than we do. For example, many large, well-capitalized companies already offer products in the United States and Europe that target the indications for: • Colazal, including Asacol (Proctor & Gamble), sulfasalazine (Pfizer), Dipentum (UCB Pharma Inc.), Pentasa (Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, plc) and once-a-day Lialda (Shire); • Xifaxan, including ciprofloxacin, commonly known as Cipro (Bayer AG); and • Visicol, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, including Colyte, Golytely, Halflytely, and Nulytely (Braintree) and Trilyte (Schwarz Pharma) and Fleets Phospho-Soda. 17 Table of Contents In addition, other products are in research or development by competitors that address the diseases and diagnostic procedures being targeted by these and our other products. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our ability to derive revenues will suffer. Our success will depend in part on the extent to which government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors will pay for our products. Reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products is uncertain. In the United States and elsewhere, third-party payors, such as Medicaid, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the United States, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been proposed in recent years. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts, including those relating to Medicaid payments, might have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could increase costs and reduce or eliminate profit margins. Third-party insurance coverage might not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products might be reduced. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products. We have limited experience and capabilities in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We do not generally expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of products, but instead contract with others for these services. A limited number of manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our marketed products and our product candidates. We might fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or might contract with manufacturers on terms that may not be entirely acceptable to us. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: • the manufacture of products might be difficult to scale up when required and result in delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products; • some of our contracts contain purchase commitments that require us to make minimum purchases that might exceed needs or limit the ability to negotiate with other manufacturers, which might increase costs; • the cost of manufacturing certain products might make them prohibitively expensive; • delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change in manufacturers could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; • manufacturers are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by the third-party manufacturers; and • if we need to change manufacturers, FDA and comparable foreign regulators would require new testing and compliance inspections and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in the processes necessary for the production of our products. Failure to manage growth could increase expenses faster than revenue. We have experienced significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations in recent years and moved our headquarters in mid-2005. The number of employees has increased from approximately 25 on September 30, 2000 to approximately 240 on December 31, 2006. This growth placed, and continues to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. For example, in mid-2001 we doubled the size of our sales force, which we believe contributed to a temporary slowdown in the growth of sales, in part due to the distractions in training and territory realignment. Our continued growth might place further strains on our management and operations. Our ability to manage growth effectively will depend upon our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees, particularly in sales and marketing. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, management information and financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. 18 Table of Contents If we do not maintain our profitability or if we incur losses in the future, then the value of our common stock is likely to fall. We have a significant accumulated deficit, and incurred losses and negative cash flow from operations in each year from our inception in 1992 through December 31, 2004. We achieved profitability and positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. We incurred a loss of $60.6 million on a GAAP basis for the year ended December 31, 2005, which includes a $74.0 million charge related to our September 2005 acquisition of InKine. Our continued success and growth is dependent on the marketing and sales of our current products and the sale of newly acquired or developed products. If we are unsuccessful in achieving increased revenues through the sale of our current products or through the sale of newly acquired or developed products, especially after incurring costs of the merger and increasing expenses as a result of the larger combined operations, we will not be able to operate profitably in the future. Our common stock is likely to decrease in value if we fail to maintain profitability or if the market believes that we are unable to maintain profitability. Our results of operations might fluctuate from period to period, and a failure to meet the expectations of investors or the financial community at large could result in a decline in our stock price. Our results of operations might fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis due to, among other factors: • the timing of regulatory approvals and product launches by us or competitors, including potential generic or over-the-counter competitors; • the level of revenue generated by commercialized products, including potential increased purchases of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of potential price increases or introductions of new dosages or bottle sizes, and subsequent lower than expected revenue as the inventory is used; • the timing of any up-front payments that might be required in connection with any future acquisition of product rights; • the timing of milestone payments that might be required to our current or future licensors; • fluctuations in our development and other costs in connection with ongoing product development programs; • the level of marketing and other expenses required in connection with product launches and ongoing product growth; • the timing of the acquisition and integration of businesses, assets, products and technologies; and • general and industry-specific business and economic conditions. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile and might continue to be, making owning our stock risky. Between January 1, 2004 and March 1, 2007, the price of a share of our common stock varied from a low of $9.77 to a high of $24.38, as adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split effected in July 2004. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the performance of particular companies, including for example the approximate 4% single-day drop on February 27, 2007. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in the past been and can in the future be expected to be especially volatile. Announcements of prescription trends, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, might have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Antitakeover provisions could discourage a takeover that stockholders consider to be in their best interests or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a number of provisions that could have antitakeover effects or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a stockholder protection rights plan, commonly referred to as a 19 Table of Contents poison pill. The rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights plan will not prevent an acquisition that is approved by our board of directors. We believe our rights plan assisted in our successful defense against a hostile takeover bid earlier in 2003. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to determine the terms of up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and issue them without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, voting control in order to remove our current directors and management. Our bylaws also eliminate the ability of the stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting or make proposals at stockholder meetings without giving us advance written notice, which could hinder the ability of stockholders to quickly take action that might be opposed by management. These provisions could make more difficult the removal of current directors and management or a takeover of Salix, even if these events could be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 