ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The PSN's Operations are Dependent on Humana, Inc. The PSN currently derives, and expects to continue to derive, the substantially all of its revenue from its Humana Agreements which provide for the receipt of capitated fees. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 99.2% of the PSN total revenue was obtained from these Humana Agreements. Humana may immediately terminate either of the Humana Agreements and/or any individual physician credentialed under the Humana Agreements upon the occurrence of certain events. Humana may also amend the material terms of the Humana Agreements under certain circumstances. See "ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Humana Agreements" for a detailed discussion of the Humana Agreements. Failure to maintain the Humana Agreements on favorable terms, for any reason, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A material decline in enrollees in Humana's Medicare Advantage program could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. There Can be No Assurance that We Will be Successful in Our Operation of the HMO. Although we have operated as a risk provider since 1997, we have only operated the HMO since July 1, 2005. While the HMO's business has continued to grow, such growth has required and is expected to continue to require a considerable amount of require capital. We contributed approximately $6.8 million to the HMO during 2006 and another $6.5 million subsequent to year end to finance the operations and growth of the HMO. In the year ended December 31, 2006, the HMO's business generated an $11.7 million segment loss before allocated overhead and income taxes. We project that in 2007, the HMO's business will continue to generate a loss before allocated overhead and income taxes. The HMO's actual cash needs and losses for 2007 are expected to be strongly influenced by, among other things, the HMO's membership levels and medical expense utilization rates as wells as the scale, cost and effectiveness of various marketing programs we may undertake. We are still not in a position to meaningfully estimate when, if ever, the HMO's business will become profitable and/or generate cash from operations, and we may be required to fund the development and expansion of the HMO business, including any associated losses, for an extended period of time. Nonetheless, we anticipate that the on-going development efforts, reserve requirements and operating costs for our still developing HMO business can be funded by our current resources and projected cash flows from operations until at least December 31, 2007. To successfully operate the HMO, we believe we will have to continue our development of the following capabilities, among others: sales and marketing, customer service and regulatory compliance. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in operating this segment of our business despite our allocation of a substantial amount of resources for this purpose. If the HMO does not develop as anticipated or planned, we would likely explore strategic alternatives for the business and/or devote additional managerial and/or capital resources to the HMO, which could limit our ability to manage and/or grow the PSN. There can be no assurances that, if for any reason, we elect to discontinue the HMO business and/or seek to sell such business, we will be able to fully recoup our expenditures to date with respect to the HMO business. The failure of the HMO to perform as projected could also limit our ability to manage and/or grow the PSN. Most of our senior management team provides management, support and assistance to both the HMO and the PSN. To the extent one business consumes a higher than anticipated amount of our executive resources, the other business could suffer. In our contract with CMS we commit to provide various healthcare services for a year long period and we must notify CMS by June if we intend not to renew a contract term that commences in January. Accordingly, even if we deemed it economically necessary or desirable to scale back or discontinue operations in one or more HMO service areas, our financial and service commitments to CMS and our customers might preclude us from doing so at the desired rate, which would likely increase our losses associated with such service area. Moreover, we believe there are certain inherent economies of scale associated with our business. Accordingly, any individual decision to scale back or discontinue operations in even part of one service area could have a disproportionately large negative effect on our results of operations. - 21 - Because we must elect whether or not to renew our contracts with CMS approximately six months before a service period commences, our ability to accurately project the results of future operations for at least 18 months is very important. Because of the short history of the HMO, it is difficult to accurately make long term projections regarding the HMO business. We have found it especially difficult to precisely budget our customer growth and medical expenses. Although we have implemented a strategy to improve our ability to reduce these planning impediments, we recognize that they may remain significant obstacles to our ability to project the results of the HMO business. Because Most of Our Revenue Is Established by Contract and Cannot Be Modified During the Contract Terms, Our Operating Margins Could be Negatively Impacted if We Are Unable to Manage Our Medical Expenses Effectively. The Humana Agreements and the CMS Agreement are risk agreements under which we receive monthly payments for each Humana Participating Customer and each customer enrolled in our HMO (collectively, the "Participating Customers") at a rate established by the agreements, also called a capitated fee. In accordance with the agreements, the total monthly payment is a function of the number of Participating Customers, regardless of the actual utilization rate of covered services. In return, the PSN or the HMO, as applicable, through its affiliated providers, assumes full financial responsibility for the provision of all necessary medical care to the Participating Customers, regardless of whether or not its affiliated providers directly provide the covered medical services. To the extent that the Participating Customers require more care than is anticipated, aggregate capitation rates may be insufficient to cover the costs associated with the treatment of such Participating Customers. If medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances, we will be unable to increase the premiums received under these contracts during the then-current terms. Relatively small changes in our ratio of medical expense to revenue can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, or IBNR, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of revenue have fluctuated. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed estimates include: o higher than expected utilization of new or existing healthcare services or technologies; o an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; o changes to mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; o Humana's periodic renegotiation of provider contracts with specialist physicians, hospitals and ancillary providers; o periodic renegotiation of contracts with our affiliated primary care physicians; o changes in the demographics of our customers and medical trends affecting Medicare risk scores; o contractual or claims disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers within the Humana network; and o the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, or acts of terrorism. We attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, information systems, and reinsurance. Despite our efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses, we may not be able to continue to manage these expenses effectively in the future. If Our HMO Contracts Are Not Renewed or Are Terminated, the HMO's Business Would Be Negatively Impacted. A new CMS Agreements was entered into effective January 1, 2007 and expires on December 31, 2007. Pursuant to the CMS Agreement, the HMO is required to comply with federal Medicare laws and regulations, and the CMS Agreement is subject to termination by CMS in the event of the HMO's noncompliance. If the HMO is unable to renew or to successfully rebid for the CMS Agreement, or if the CMS Agreement is terminated, its business would be negatively impacted. - 22 - Reductions in Government Funding for Medicare Programs Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Substantially all of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from reimbursements generated by Medicare Advantage health plans. As a result, our revenue and profitability are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare Advantage programs. The Medicare programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective rate adjustments, administrative rulings, and funding restrictions, any of which could have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels. These government programs, as well as private insurers such as Humana, have taken and may continue to take steps to control the cost, use and delivery of health care services. Any changes that limit or reduce Medicare reimbursement levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, the following events could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations: o reductions in or limitations of reimbursement amounts or rates under programs; o reductions in funding of programs; o expansion of benefits without adequate funding; o elimination of coverage for certain benefits; or o elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under programs. The MMA Will Materially Impact Our Operations and Could Reduce Our Profitability and Increase Competition for Customers. The MMA substantially changed the Medicare program and is complex and wide-ranging. While many of these changes will generally benefit the Medicare Advantage sector, certain provisions of the MMA may increase competition, create challenges with respect to educating the PSN's and the HMO's existing and potential customers about the changes, and create other risks and substantial and potentially adverse uncertainties, including the following: o Increased reimbursement rates for Medicare Advantage plans could result in a further increase in the number of plans that participate in the Medicare program. This could create new competition that could adversely affect the number of customers the PSN or the HMO serve and their respective results of operations. o Managed care companies began offering various new products in 2006 pursuant to the MMA, including regional preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, and private fee-for-service plans. Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans allow their customers more flexibility in selecting physicians than Medicare Advantage HMOs, which typically require customers to coordinate with a primary care physician. The MMA has encouraged the creation of regional PPOs through various incentives, including certain risk corridors, or cost-reimbursement provisions, a stabilization fund for incentive payments, and special payments to hospitals not otherwise contracted with a Medicare Advantage plan that treat regional plan enrollees. It is too early to determine whether the formation of regional Medicare PPOs and private fee-for-service plans will affect our PSN's or HMO's relative attractiveness to existing and potential Medicare customers in their service areas. o The payments for the local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may directly or indirectly cause the PSN and/or the HMO to decrease the amount of premiums paid to it or cause it to increase the benefits it offers. o Medicare beneficiaries generally have a more limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a Medicare Advantage plan or receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries will not be permitted to change their Medicare benefits. This "lock-in" may make it difficult for the HMO to retain an adequate sales force. The new annual enrollment process and subsequent "lock-in" provisions of the MMA may adversely affect our level of revenue growth as it will limit the HMO's ability to market to and enroll new customers in its established service areas outside of the annual enrollment period. Such limitations could adversely and materially affect our profitability and results of operations. o Managed care companies that offer Medicare Advantage plans are required to offer prescription drug benefits as part of their Medicare Advantage plans. Managed care plans offering drug benefits are, under the new law, called MA-PDs. There is insufficient information to determine whether the governmental payments will be adequate to cover the actual costs for these new MA-PD benefits or whether we will be able to profitably or competitively manage our MA-PDs. Individuals who are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan must receive their drug coverage through their Medicare Advantage prescription drug plan. Enrollees may prefer a stand-alone drug plan and may cease to be a Medicare Advantage customer in order to participate in a stand-alone PDP. Accordingly, the new Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit could reduce Participating Customer enrollment and revenue. - 23 - CMS's Risk Adjustment Payment System and Budget Neutrality Payment Adjustments Make Our Revenue and Profitability Difficult to Predict and Could Result In Material Retroactive Adjustments to Our Results of Operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for Medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS is phasing-in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnostic data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age, and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect, and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS twice a year for reconciliation with CMS's internal database. As part of the phase-in, during 2003, risk adjusted payments accounted for 10% of Medicare health plan payments, with the remaining 90% being reimbursed in accordance with the traditional CMS demographic rate books. The portion of risk adjusted payments was increased to 30% in 2004, 50% in 2005, and 75% in 2006 and to 100% in 2007. As a result of this process, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. In addition, the HMO's and/or Humana's risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the payments directly or indirectly received from CMS and our Medicare premium revenue. There can be no assurance that our contracting physicians and hospitals will be successful in improving the accuracy of related recording diagnostic code information and thereby enhancing its risk scores. Since 2003, payments to Medicare Advantage plans have also been adjusted by a "budget neutrality" factor that was implemented by Congress and CMS to prevent health plan payments from being reduced overall while, at the same time, directing higher, risk adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment has favorably impacted payments to all Medicare Advantage plans. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 which, among other changes, provides for an accelerated phase-out of budget neutrality for risk adjustment of payments made to Medicare Advantage plans. This legislation will have the effect of reducing payments to Medicare Advantage plans in general. Consequently, we expect the premiums we receive could be reduced, dependent upon the HMO's and Humana's risk scores. A Disruption in Our Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. Our operations and profitability are dependent, in part, upon our ability to contract with healthcare providers and provider networks on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our customers, or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some service areas, healthcare providers may have significant market positions. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts, or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then our ability to market products or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of customers or higher healthcare costs. A Disruption in Humana's Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. A significant portion of the PSN's Total Medical Expenses are payable to entities that are not customers and/or directly contracted with the PSN. Although virtually all of such entities are Humana approved service providers, and although the PSN can provide Humana input with respect to Humana's service providers, the PSN does not control the process by which Humana negotiates and/or contracts with service providers in the Humana Medicare Advantage network. We Depend on Third Parties to Provide Us with Crucial Information and Data. - 24 - Humana provides a significant amount of information and services to the PSN, including claims processing, billing services, data collection and other information, including reports and calculations of costs of services provided and payments to be received by the PSN. The PSN does not own or control such systems and, accordingly, has limited ability to ensure that these systems are properly maintained, serviced and updated. In addition, information systems such as these may be vulnerable to failure, acts of sabotage and obsolescence. The PSN's business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by its inability, for any reason, to receive timely and accurate information from Humana. The HMO relies on HFAS, a third party service provider, to provide various administrative and management services, including, but not limited to, claims processing and adjudication, certain management information services, regulatory reporting and customer services pursuant to the terms of the Services Agreement. Because these services are outsourced as opposed to performed internally, we have less control over the manner in which these matters are handled and the accuracy and timeliness of the data provided to us than if we handled these functions internally. Additionally, any loss of information by Humana or HFAS could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of its operations. Claims Relating to Medical Malpractice and Other Litigation Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, providers affiliated with the PSN or the HMO involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. A small percentage of these providers do not have malpractice insurance. As a result of increased costs or inability to secure malpractice insurance, the percentage of physicians who do not have malpractice insurance may increase. Although most of its network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a PSN and/or HMO should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. Similar to other managed care companies, the HMO may also be subject to other claims of its customers in the ordinary course of business, including claims arising out of decisions to deny or restrict reimbursement for services. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and there can be no assurances that we will not incur substantial expense in defending these or future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories may significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. Nonetheless, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations or the amount of insurance coverage and/or related reserves may be inadequate. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend our self against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract management's attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Our Industry is Already Very Competitive; Increased Competition Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue; the PSN Competes with Other Service Providers for Humana's Business. We compete in the highly competitive and regulated health care industry, which is subject to continuing changes with respect to the provisioning of services and the selection and compensation of providers. In 2006, approximately 86.9% of our revenue was generated pursuant to the Humana Agreements. Humana competes with other HMOs and PPOs in securing and serving patients in the Medicare Advantage Program. Companies in other health care industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources comparable to or greater than Humana, may become competitors to Humana. The market in Florida may become increasingly attractive to HMOs and PPOs that may compete with Humana or the HMO. Humana and the HMO may not be able to continue to compete effectively in the health care industry if additional competitors enter the same market. The PSN competes with other service providers for Humana's business and Humana competes with other HMOs and PPOs in securing and serving patients in the Medicare Advantage Program. Failure to maintain favorable terms in its agreements with Humana would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. - 25 - Competitors of our PSN vary in size and scope, in terms of products and services offered. Our PSN competes directly with various national, regional and local companies that provide similar services. Some of the PSN's direct competitors are Continucare Corporation, Primary Care Associates, Inc., MCCI and Island Doctors, all based and operating in Florida. We believe that Continucare Corporation, Primary Care Associates, Inc. and MCCI provide PSN services to Humana in South Florida and Island Doctors provides PSN services to Humana in Central Florida. Additionally, companies in other health care industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than ours, may become competitors in providing similar services at any given time. The market in Florida may become increasingly attractive to competitor PSNs due to the large population of Medicare participants. We and Humana may not be able to continue to compete effectively in the health care industry if additional competitors enter the same markets. We believe that many of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger than our PSN and/or the HMO and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. We believe that most of our competitors also have more experience operating as an HMO and that these competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to changes in the regulatory environment in which they operate and changes in managed care organization business or to devote greater resources to the development and promotion of their services than we can. Furthermore, it is our belief that some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves. We are Dependent upon Certain Executive Officers and Key Management Personnel for Our Future Success. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of certain of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and plans for future development. While we have employment contracts with certain executive officers and key customers of management, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentive for these persons to continue their employment with us. We compete with other companies in the industry for executive talent and there can be no assurance that highly qualified executives would be readily and easily available without delay, given the limited number of individuals in the industry with expertise particular to our business operations. Our Business Activities Are Highly Regulated and New and Proposed Government Regulation or Legislative Reforms Could Increase Our Cost of Doing Business, and Reduce Our Customer Base, Profitability, and Liquidity. Our business is subject to substantial federal and state regulation. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our contracts and licenses, directly or indirectly regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our customers, providers, and the public. Healthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: o imposing additional license, registration, or capital reserve requirements; o increasing our administrative and other costs; o forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; o increasing mandated benefits without corresponding premium increases; o limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; o forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; or o requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. It is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicare program and to continue to serve and attract new customers. The Health Care Industry is Highly Regulated. Our Failure to Comply with Laws or Regulations, or a Determination that in the Past We Had Failed to Comply with Laws or Regulations, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. - 26 - The health care services that we and our affiliated professionals provide are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various matters such as the licensing and certification of our facilities and personnel, the conduct of our operations, billing and coding policies and practices, policies and practices with regard to patient privacy and confidentiality, and prohibitions on payments for the referral of business and self-referrals. These laws are generally aimed at protecting patients and not our shareholders, and the agencies charged with the administration of these laws have broad authority to enforce them. See "ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Government Regulation" for a discussion of the various federal government and the State laws and regulations to which we are subject. The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits, and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses, and applicable laws and regulations. These reviews, audits and investigations can be time consuming and costly. An adverse review, audit, or investigation could result in any of the following: o loss of the PSN's or the HMO's right to directly or indirectly participate in the Medicare program; o loss of one or more of the PSN's and/or the HMO's licenses to act as a service provider, HMO or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; o forfeiture or recoupment of amounts the PSN and/or the HMO has been paid pursuant to its contracts; o imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines, or other sanctions on the Company and/or its key employees; o damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; o increased restrictions on marketing of the PSN's or the HMO's products and services; and o inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions, or acquisitions. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, Office of Audit Services, or OIG, conducts reviews of Medicare Advantage plans to determine whether they used payment increases consistent with the requirements of the MMA. Under the MMA, when a Medicare Advantage plan receives a payment increase, it must reduce beneficiary premiums or cost sharing, enhance benefits, put additional payment amounts in a benefit stabilization fund, or use the additional payment amounts to stabilize or enhance access. There can be no assurances that the findings of an audit or investigation of our business would not have an adverse effect on us or require substantial modifications to our operations. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, are entitled to bring enforcement actions under a special provision of the federal False Claims Act. A Failure to Estimate Incurred But Not Reported Medical Benefits Expense Accurately Could Affect Our Profitability. Direct medical expenses include estimates of future medical claims that have been incurred by the customer but for which the provider has not yet billed us ("IBNR"). IBNR estimates are made utilizing actuarial methods and are continually evaluated and adjusted by management, based upon our historical claims experience. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to direct medical expenses when the criteria used to determine IBNR change and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. Due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the factors used in these estimations, materially different amounts could be reported in our financial statements for a particular period under different conditions or using different, but still reasonable, assumptions. Although our past estimates of IBNR have typically been adequate, they may be inadequate in the future, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, the inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. If the HMO Is Required to Maintain Higher Statutory Capital Levels for Our Existing Operations or if We Are Subject to Additional Capital Reserve Requirements as We Pursue New Business Opportunities, Our Liquidity May Be Adversely Affected. The HMO is subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, or net worth, and restrict the payment of dividends without appropriate regulatory notification and approvals. At December 31, 2006, all of the HMO's cash and cash equivalents are subject to the restriction on the payment of dividends. The State of Florida may raise the statutory capital level from time to time. Other states have adopted risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which tend to be, although are not necessarily, higher than existing statutory capital requirements. Regardless of whether Florida adopts risk-based capital requirements, the Florida Department of Insurance can require the HMO to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if it determines that maintaining additional statutory capital is in the best interests of the HMO's customers. Any increases in these requirements could materially increase our reserve requirements. In addition, as we continue to expand plan offerings in Florida or pursue new business opportunities, the HMO may be required to maintain additional statutory capital reserves. In either case, available funds could be materially reduced, and we could have less capital available to our PSN business operations, both of which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. - 27 - We Are Required to Comply With Laws Governing the Transmission, Security and Privacy of Health Information That Require Significant Compliance Costs, and Any Failure to Comply With These Laws Could Result in Material Criminal and Civil Penalties. Regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, business associates and customers. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. HIPAA also provides that to the extent that state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, a state seeks and receives an exception from the Department of Health and Human Services regarding certain state laws, or state laws concerning certain specified areas, such state standards and laws are not preempted. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and, at times, conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with the HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Furthermore, a state's ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance more difficult. To the extent that we submit electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that do not comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, payments may be delayed or denied. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. In addition, failure to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA could result in additional penalties. Recent Challenges Faced by CMS Related to Implementation of Part D May Temporarily Disrupt or Adversely Affect the PSN's and the HMO's Relationships with their Respective Customers. Partially in anticipation of the implementation of Part D, CMS transitioned to new information and reporting systems, which has generated confusing and, we believe in some cases, erroneous customer and payment reports concerning Medicare eligibility and enrollment, most of which we believe reflects inadvertently disenrolled dual-eligible and other beneficiaries who were already customers of our PSN or HMO. In addition, recent media reports are prevalent concerning the confusion caused by failures in systems and reporting for Part D, particularly as these failures adversely affect the access of dual-eligibles and low-income beneficiaries to their prescription drugs. These developments could cause us to experience short-term disruptions in our operations and challenge our information and communications systems which could temporarily disrupt or adversely affect the PSN's or the HMO's relationships with their respective customers, resulting in a reduction of our customer base and adversely affecting our operating results. We May Be Unsuccessful in Implementing Our Growth Strategy If We Are Unable to Expand into New Service Areas in a Timely Manner in Accordance with Our Strategic Plans. Our strategy is to continue to focus on growth within certain geographic regions of Florida. Continued growth may impair our ability to manage existing operations and provide services efficiently and to manage our employees adequately. Future results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage growth efforts effectively. We are seeking to continue to increase the PSN and the HMO customer base and to expand to new service areas within our existing markets and in other markets. We are likely to incur additional costs if the PSN or the HMO enters service areas where it does not currently operate. Our rate of expansion into new geographic areas may also be limited by: o the time and costs associated with obtaining an HMO license to operate in a new area or expanding the HMO's licensed service area, as the case may be; - 28 - o the PSN and/or the HMO's inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals, and other healthcare providers that meets their respective requirements and those of the applicable regulators; o competition, which could increase the costs of recruiting customers, reduce the pool of available customers, or increase the cost of attracting and maintaining providers; o the cost of providing healthcare services in those areas; o demographics and population density; and o the new annual enrollment period and lock-in provisions of the MMA. We have Anti-Takeover Provisions Which May Make it Difficult to Acquire Us or Replace or Remove Current Management. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may delay or prevent our acquisition, a change in our management or similar change in control transaction, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices or that shareholders may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the Board of Directors. Because the Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of the management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our shareholders to replace the current members of the management team. These provisions provide, among other things, that: o any shareholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of shareholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; o special meetings of shareholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the directors; o the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors; and o the Board of Directors has the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, without shareholder approval. Our Quarterly Results Will Likely Fluctuate, Which Could Cause the Value of Our Common Stock to Decline. We are subject to quarterly variations in medical expenses due to sometimes pronounced fluctuations in patient utilization. We have significant fixed operating costs and, as a result, are highly dependent on patient utilization to sustain profitability. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year. For example, we usually experience a greater use of medical services in the winter months. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which could cause the value of our Common Stock to decline. The Market Price of Our Common Stock Could Fall as a Result of Sales of Shares of Common Stock in the Market or the Price Could Remain Lower because of the Perception that Such Sales May Occur. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or the possibility of future sales may have on the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 50.3 million shares of our Common Stock outstanding, all of which are freely tradable without restriction or tradable in accordance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act with the exception of approximately 15.9 million shares, owned by certain of our officers, directors and affiliates which may be sold publicly at any time subject to the volume and other restrictions promulgated pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, approximately 5.2 million shares of our Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options which were previously granted and 355,000 shares of our Common Stock were reserved for future issuance upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. - 29 - Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock or the perception that such sales could occur could adversely affect prevailing market prices which could impair our ability to raise funds through future sales of Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock could fluctuate significantly and unexpectedly as a result of a number of factors, including factors beyond our control and unrelated to our business. Some of the factors related to our business include: termination of the Humana Agreements, announcements relating to our business or that of our competitors, adverse publicity concerning organizations in our industry, changes in state or federal legislation and programs, general conditions affecting the industry, performance of companies comparable to us, and changes in the expectations of analysts with the respect to our future financial performance. Additionally, our Common Stock may be affected by general economic conditions or specific occurrences such as epidemics (such as influenza), natural disasters (including hurricanes), and acts of war or terrorism. Because of the limited trading market for our Common Stock, and because of the possible price volatility, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock when they desire to do so. The inability to sell shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase our shareholders' risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our Common Stock may suffer greater declines because of our price volatility. Delisting of Our Common Stock from AMEX Would Adversely Affect Us and Our Shareholders. Our Common Stock is listed on the AMEX. To maintain listing of securities, the AMEX requires satisfaction of certain maintenance criteria that we may not be able to continue to be able to satisfy. If we are unable to satisfy such maintenance criteria in the future and we fail to comply, our Common Stock may be delisted from trading on AMEX. If our Common Stock is delisted from trading on AMEX, then trading, if any, might thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or on the "Electronic Bulletin Board" of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and consequently an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our Common Stock. Our Common Stock May Not be Excepted from "Penny Stock" Rules, Which May Adversely Affect the Market Liquidity of Our Common Stock. The Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 requires additional disclosure relating to the market for penny stocks in connection with trades in any stock defined as a "penny stock". The Securities and Exchange Commission's (the "Commission" or the "SEC") regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For example, such exceptions include any equity security listed on a national securities exchange such as the AMEX. Currently, our Common Stock meets this exception. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. In addition, if our Common Stock becomes delisted from the AMEX and we do not meet another exception to the penny stock regulations, trading in our Common Stock would be covered by the Commission's Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act for non-national securities exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities also are exempt from this rule if the market price is at least $5.00 per share. If our Common Stock becomes subject to the regulations applicable to penny stocks, the market liquidity for our Common Stock could be adversely affected. In such event, the regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker/dealers to sell our Common Stock and thus the ability of purchasers of our Common Stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 