Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors Influencing Future Results and Accuracy of Forward — Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about us, our beliefs, and assumptions made by us. In addition, we may make other written or oral statements, which constitute forward-looking statements, from time to time. Words such as “may,” “expects,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals also are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. All forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the marketplace’s continued receptivity to our terms and elements of services offered under our standardized contract for future bundled service offerings; our ability to continue the growth of our service revenues through additional customer contact management centers; our ability to further penetrate into vertically integrated markets; our ability to expand revenues within the global markets; our ability to continue to establish a competitive advantage through sophisticated technological capabilities, and the following risk factors: Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the economic downturn in the United States and the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the demand for some of our client’s products and services and, in turn, could cause a decline in the demand for our services. Also, our clients may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, due to recent turmoil in the credit markets and the continued decline in the economy, we may not be able to renew our revolving credit facility at terms that are as favorable as those terms available under our current credit facility. Also, the group of lenders under our credit facility may not be able to fulfill their funding obligations, which could adversely impact our liquidity. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or 13 Table of Contents decline, this could adversely affect our revenue, operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to access debt under comparable terms and conditions. Our business is dependent on key clients, and the loss of a key client could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a few key clients. Our top ten clients accounted for approximately 46% of our consolidated revenues in 2009 and we expect this percentage to decrease in 2010 with the acquisition of ICT. The loss of (or the failure to retain a significant amount of business with) any of our key clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts contain penalty provisions for failure to meet minimum service levels and are cancelable by the client at any time or on short-term notice. Also, clients may unilaterally reduce their use of our services under these contracts without penalty. Thus, our contracts with our clients do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenues. Our international operations and expansion involve various risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in markets outside the United States. At December 31, 2009, our international operations in EMEA and the Asia Pacific Rim were conducted from 26 customer contact management centers located in Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Germany, South Africa, Scotland, Ireland, Italy, Denmark, Hungary, Slovakia, Spain, The Peoples Republic of China and the Philippines. Revenues from these international operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, were 53%, 57%, and 56% of consolidated revenues, respectively. Revenues from international operations, if combined with ICT’s revenues from international operations, for the year ended December 31, 2009 would decrease 7% from 53% to 46%. We also conduct business from nine customer contact management centers located in Argentina, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Brazil. International operations are subject to certain risks common to international activities, such as changes in foreign governmental regulations, tariffs and taxes, import/export license requirements, the imposition of trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, political uncertainties, longer payment cycles, foreign exchange restrictions that could limit the repatriation of earnings, possible greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, economic instability as well as political and country-specific risks. Additionally, we have been granted tax holidays in the Philippines, Costa Rica, El Salvador and, India which expire at varying dates from 2010 through 2018. In some cases, the tax holidays expire without possibility of renewal. In other cases, we expect to renew these tax holidays, but there are no assurances from the respective foreign governments that they will renew them. This could potentially result in adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors could have an adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash balances of approximately $179.3 million (excluding restricted cash of $80.3 million) held in international operations, which may be subject to additional taxes if repatriated to the United States. On February 8, 2010, the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors approved management’s recommendation to change our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of $85 million of foreign subsidiaries’ accumulated and undistributed earnings. Within 24 months, we anticipate using these funds to pay down the $75 million Term Loan and a $10 million increase in estimated costs related to the ICT acquisition. We conduct business in various foreign currencies and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to certain exposures arising from the translation and consolidation of the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries. We have, from time to time, taken limited actions, such as using foreign currency forward contracts, to attempt to mitigate our currency exchange exposure. However, there can be no assurance that we will take any actions to mitigate such exposure in the future, and if taken, that such actions will be successful or that future changes in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. A significant change in the value of the dollar against the currency of one or more countries where we operate may have a material adverse effect on our results. The fundamental shift in our industry toward global service delivery markets presents various risks to our business. Clients continue to require blended delivery models using a combination of onshore and offshore support. Our offshore delivery locations include The Peoples Republic of China, the Philippines, Costa Rica, El Salvador, 14 Table of Contents Argentina and Brazil, and while we have operated in global delivery markets since 1996, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully conduct and expand such operations, and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The success of our offshore operations will be subject to numerous contingencies, some of which are beyond our control, including general and regional economic conditions, prices for our services, competition, changes in regulation and other risks. In addition, as with all of our operations outside of the United States, we are subject to various additional political, economic, and market uncertainties (see “Our international operations and expansion involve various risks.”). Additionally, a change in the political environment in the United States or the adoption and enforcement of legislation and regulations curbing the use of offshore customer contact management solutions and services could effectively have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Improper disclosure or control of personal information could result in liability and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our employees, our clients and customers of our clients. While we take measures to protect the security and privacy of this information and to prevent unauthorized access, it is possible that our security controls over personal data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial competition. The markets for many of our services operate on a commoditized basis and are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. While many companies provide outsourced customer contact management services, we believe no one company is dominant in the industry. There are numerous and varied providers of our services, including firms specializing in call center operations, temporary staffing and personnel placement, consulting and integration firms, and niche providers of outsourced customer contact management services, many of whom compete in only certain markets. Our competitors include both companies who possess greater resources and name recognition than we do, as well as small niche providers that have few assets and regionalized (local) name recognition instead of global name recognition. In addition to our competitors, many companies who might utilize our services or the services of one of our competitors may utilize in-house personnel to perform such services. Increased competition, our failure to compete successfully, pricing pressures, loss of market share and loss of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our large clients purchase outsourced customer contact management services from multiple preferred vendors. We have experienced and continue to anticipate significant pricing pressure from these clients in order to remain a preferred vendor. These companies also require vendors to be able to provide services in multiple locations. Although we believe we can effectively meet our clients’ demands, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with other outsourced customer contact management services companies on price. We believe that the most significant competitive factors in the sale of our core services include the standard requirements of service quality, tailored value added service offerings, industry experience, advanced technological capabilities, global coverage, reliability, scalability, security and price. Our inability to attract and retain experienced personnel may adversely impact our business. Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified technical and consultative professional personnel. We generally experience high turnover of our personnel and are continuously required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. Additionally, demand for qualified technical professionals conversant in multiple languages, including English, and/or certain technologies may exceed supply, as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training, or retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With the acquisition of ICT, the ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of 15 Table of Contents experienced personnel may become more difficult. Our operations are substantially dependent on our senior management. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts, direction and guidance of our senior management. Our growth and success also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees and managers and on the ability of our executive officers and key employees to manage our operations successfully. We have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with our executive officers. The loss of any of our senior management or key personnel, or the inability to attract, retain or replace key management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing. Our business and growth depend in large part on the industry trend toward outsourced customer contact management services. Outsourcing means that an entity contracts with a third party, such as us, to provide customer contact services rather than perform such services in-house. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves. A significant change in this trend could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our cross-selling efforts will cause clients to purchase additional services from us or adopt a single-source outsourcing approach. Our strategy of growing through selective acquisitions and mergers involves potential risks. We evaluate opportunities to expand the scope of our services through acquisitions and mergers. We may be unable to identify companies that complement our strategies, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategies, we may be unable to acquire or merge with the company. In addition, a decrease in the price of our common stock could hinder our growth strategy by limiting growth through acquisitions funded with SYKES’ stock. Our acquisition strategy involves other potential risks. These risks include: § The inability to obtain the capital required to finance potential acquisitions on satisfactory terms; § The diversion of our attention to the integration of the businesses to be acquired; § The risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; § The need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; § The risk that key employees of the acquired business will leave after the acquisition; § Potential liabilities of the acquired business; § Unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations; § Adverse short-term effects on our operating results; § Lack of success in assimilating or integrating the operations of acquired businesses within our business; § The dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; § The impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions; § The businesses we acquire not proving profitable; and § Potentially incurring additional indebtedness. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the ICT acquisition, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of our acquisition of ICT Group, Inc. will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our businesses with those of ICT. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings we must successfully combine our businesses with those of ICT. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors and lessors, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 16 Table of Contents Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of ICT into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other things: • integrating our marketing and promotion activities and information technology systems with those of ICT; • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and • making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock after the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate ICT’s operations into our own, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. We will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the ICT acquisition. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the ICT acquisition will be comprised of transaction costs related to the acquisition, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. The ICT acquisition may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We expect to realize potential annual synergies of approximately $20 million in connection with the ICT acquisition. Giving consideration to realizing a significant portion of the anticipated synergies in 2010, the acquisition is currently expected to be neutral to our earnings per diluted share in 2010. On an adjusted basis, which excludes expenses related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, while including the expected synergies, the acquisition is expected to be earnings per diluted share accretive in 2010. These expectations are based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition. 17 Table of Contents All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. The ICT acquisition will result in substantial goodwill. If the goodwill becomes impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated and shareholders’ equity may be reduced. The actual amount of goodwill depends in part on the market value of our common stock as of the date on which the acquisition was completed and the appropriate allocation of the purchase price, which may be impacted by a number of factors, including changes in the net assets acquired and changes in the fair values of the net assets acquired. Given the date of the acquisition, we have not completed the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which is in process. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. Under GAAP, this would result in a charge to the combined company’s operating earnings. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition would negatively affect the combined company’s results of operations. We are subject to various uncertainties relating to future litigation. We cannot predict whether any material suits, claims, or investigations may arise in the future. Regardless of the outcome of any future actions, claims, or investigations, we may incur substantial defense costs and such actions may cause a diversion of management time and attention. Also, it is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change which could affect our business and results of operations. Rapid technological advances, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and changes in client requirements characterize the market for outsourced customer contact management services. Technological advancements in voice recognition software, as well as self-provisioning and self-help software, along with call avoidance technologies, have the potential to adversely impact call volume growth and, therefore, revenues. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to service new products, platforms and rapidly changing technology. These factors will require us to provide adequately trained personnel to address the increasingly sophisticated, complex and evolving needs of our clients. In addition, our ability to capitalize on our acquisitions will depend on our ability to continually enhance software and services and adapt such software to new hardware and operating system requirements. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond rapidly to technological advances, new products and enhancements, or changes in client requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies heavily on technology and computer systems, which subjects us to various uncertainties. We have invested significantly in sophisticated and specialized communications and computer technology and have focused on the application of this technology to meet our clients’ needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Significant capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services. Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Emergency interruption of customer contact management center operations could affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our customer contact management centers and our information databases against damage that may be caused by fire, earthquakes, inclement weather and other disasters, power failure, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and other emergencies. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding precautions taken to protect us and our clients from 18 Table of Contents events that could interrupt delivery of services, there can be no assurance that a fire, natural disaster, human error, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide services to our clients. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our organizational documents contain provisions that could impede a change in control. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. The staggered Board of Directors and the anti-takeover effects of certain provisions contained in the Florida Business Corporation Act and in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of those shares without shareholder approval, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited change in control. This may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the ability of shareholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. The volatility of our stock price may result in loss of investment. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations over short and long periods of time. We believe that market prices of outsourced customer contact management services stocks in general have experienced volatility, which could affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our financial results or performance. We further believe that various factors such as general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, changing market conditions in the outsourced customer contact management services industry, quarterly variations in our financial results, the announcement of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or new product offerings, and changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the year ended December 31, 2009 relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 19 Table of Contents 