Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements and other prospective information relating to future events. These forward-looking statements and other information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or currently anticipated results including the following: Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred operating losses since our inception and expect to incur net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of approximately $17.6 million, $8.6 million, and $5.6 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. On January 1, 2009, we recognized a $2.7 million increase in our opening accumulated deficit balance reflecting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in connection with certain warrants to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $90.9 million, $70.6 million, and $62.0 million, respectively. We expect to continue to have significant operating expenses. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve sufficient revenues for profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot guarantee that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow slower than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Because our strategy might include acquisitions of other businesses, acquisition expenses and any cash used to make these acquisitions will reduce our available cash. Our business will suffer if we are unable to raise additional equity funding. Unless and until we successfully sell any of our products, such as pursuant to the BARDA Smallpox RFP, we will continue to be dependent on our ability to raise money through the exercise of existing options or warrants or through the issuance of new equity. There is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in raising such funds. If we are unable to raise additional equity funds, we may be forced to discontinue or cease certain operations. We currently have sufficient operating capital to finance our operations beyond the next twelve months. Our annual operating needs vary from year to year depending upon the amount of revenue generated through grants, contracts and licenses and the amount of projects we undertake, as well as the amount of resources we expend, in connection with acquisitions all of which may materially differ from year to year and may adversely affect our business. Any additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. 12 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investments, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; initiating, completing or analyzing, or a delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing, pre-clinical or clinical trials or the design or results of these trials; achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; developments concerning our collaborations; regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; economic or other crises and other external factors; period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts. Additionally, because the volume of trading in our stock fluctuates significantly at times, any information about SIGA in the media may result in significant volatility in our stock price. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. A future issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the voting powers, designations, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of these shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and could be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with our future activities, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, thereby delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Concentration of ownership of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our common stock. They also have, through the exercise or conversion of certain securities, the right to acquire additional common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Additionally, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of SIGA. As of December 31, 2009, directors, officers and principal stockholders beneficially owned approximately 31.0% of our stock. 13 Risks Related to Our Dependence on U.S. Government Contracts and Grants Most of our immediately foreseeable future revenues are contingent upon grants and contracts from the U. S. government, and we may not achieve sufficient revenues from these agreements to attain profitability. Until and unless we successfully sell any of our products, our ability to generate revenues will largely depend on our ability to enter into additional research grants, collaborative agreements, strategic alliances, contracts and license agreements with third parties or maintain the agreements we currently have in place. Substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were derived from grants and contracts. Our current revenue is primarily derived from contract work being performed for the NIH under grants and two major contracts which are scheduled to expire from September 2011 through September 2013. Our future business may be harmed as a result of the government contracting process, which is a competitive bidding process that involves risks not present in the commercial contracting process. We expect that a significant portion of the business that we will seek in the near future will be under government contracts or subcontracts awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding for government contracts presents a number of risks that are not typically present in the commercial contracting process, including: the need to devote substantial time and attention of management and key employees to the preparation of bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to perform any contract that we might be awarded; the risk that the government will issue a request for proposal to which we would not be eligible to respond; the risk that third parties may submit protests to our responses to requests for proposal that could result in delays or withdrawals of those requests for proposal; and the expenses that we might incur and the delays that we might suffer if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids based on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. The U.S. government may choose to award future contracts for the supply of smallpox anti-virus and other biodefense product candidates that we are developing to our competitors instead of to us. If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may not be able to operate in the market for products that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. For example, BARDA has issued a request for proposal for treatment courses for symptomatic individuals exposed to smallpox for the SNS. We have submitted a proposal responding to this request for proposal. We expect that our ability to secure an award will depend primarily on the technical merits of ST-246®. The U.S. government may purchase another company’s product candidate instead. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over an extended period, or if we fail to anticipate all of the costs and resources that will be required to secure such contract awards, our growth strategy and our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The success of our business with the U.S. government depends on our compliance with regulations and obligations under our U.S. government contracts and various federal statutes and regulations. Our business with the U.S. government is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other legal compliance obligations. These laws and rules include those related to: procurement integrity; export control; government security regulations; employment practices; protection of the environment; accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and foreign corrupt practices. 14 In addition, before awarding us any contracts, the U.S. government could require that we respond satisfactorily to a request to substantiate our commercial viability and industrial capabilities. Compliance with these obligations increases our performance and compliance costs. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of these obligations would have a negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Unfavorable provisions in government contracts, some of which may be customary, may harm our future business, financial condition and potential operating results. Government contracts customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to: terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason; unilaterally reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, including through the use of equitable price adjustments; cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; decline to exercise an option to renew a contract; exercise an option to purchase only the minimum amount specified in a contract; decline to exercise an option to purchase the maximum amount specified in a contract; claim rights to products, including intellectual property, developed under the contract; take actions that result in a longer development timeline than expected; direct the course of a development program in a manner not chosen by the government contractor; suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act and False Statements Act; and control or prohibit the export of products. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting unilateral termination or modification, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience. Under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our government contracts could be terminated under these circumstances. Some government contracts grant the government the right to use, for or on behalf of the U.S. government, any technologies developed by the contractor under the government contract. If we were to develop technology under a contract with such a provision, we might not be able to prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using that technology in providing products and services to the government. 15 Risks Related to Product Development Our business depends significantly on our success in completing development of and commercializing drug candidates that are still under development. If we are unable to commercialize these drug candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a substantial majority of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our drug candidates. Our ability to generate near-term revenue is particularly dependent on the success of our smallpox antiviral drug candidate ST-246®. The commercial success of our drug candidates will depend on many factors, including: successful development, formulation and cGMP scale-up of drug manufacturing that meets FDA requirements; successful development of animal models; successful completion of non-clinical development, including studies in approved animal models; our ability to pay the expense of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. successful completion of clinical trials; receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; a determination by BARDA that our biodefense drug candidates should be purchased for the SNS prior to FDA approval; establishing commercial manufacturing processes of our own or arrangements on reasonable terms with contract manufacturers; manufacturing stable commercial supplies of drug candidates, including availability of raw materials; launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others; and acceptance of the product by potential government customers, physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. We expect to rely on FDA regulations known as the “animal rule” to obtain approval for our biodefense drug candidates. The animal rule permits the use of animal efficacy studies together with human clinical safety trials to support an application for marketing approval. These regulations are relatively new, and we have limited experience in the application of these rules to the drug candidates that we are developing. It is possible that results from these animal efficacy studies may not be predictive of the actual efficacy of our drug candidates in humans. If we are not successful in completing the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our business could be harmed. We will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates if our pre-clinical development efforts are not successful, our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety or our clinical trials or animal studies do not demonstrate efficacy. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, we must conduct extensive pre-clinical development, clinical trials to demonstrate the safety of our drug candidates and clinical or animal trials to demonstrate the efficacy of our drug candidates. Pre-clinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials or animal efficacy studies will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial or animal efficacy study do not necessarily predict final results. 16 A failure of one or more of our clinical trials or animal efficacy studies can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial or animal efficacy study process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our drug candidates, including: regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising, if our preclinical tests, clinical trials or animal efficacy studies produce negative or inconclusive results; we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical development for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; the cost of our clinical trials could escalate and become cost prohibitive; any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; we may not be successful in recruiting a sufficient number of qualifying subjects for our clinical trials; and the effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. We are in various stages of product development and there can be no assurance of successful commercialization. In general, our research and development programs are at an early stage of development. To obtain FDA approval for our biological warfare defense products we will be required to perform at least one animal efficacy model and provide animal and human safety data. Our other products will be subject to the usual FDA regulatory requirements which include a number of phases of testing in humans. The FDA has not approved any of our biopharmaceutical product candidates. Any drug candidate we develop will require significant additional research and development efforts, including extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval, prior to commercial sale. We cannot be sure our approach to drug discovery will be effective or will result in the development of any drug. We cannot predict with certainty whether any drug resulting from our research and development efforts will be commercially available within the next several years, or if they will be available at all. 17 Even if we receive initially positive pre-clinical or clinical results, such results do not mean that similar results will be obtained in later stages of drug development, such as additional pre-clinical testing or human clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that none of our drug candidates will or can: be safe, non-toxic and effective; otherwise meet applicable regulatory standards; receive the necessary regulatory approvals; develop into commercially viable drugs; be manufactured or produced economically and on a large scale; be successfully marketed; be reimbursed by government and private insurers; and achieve customer acceptance. In addition, third parties may preclude us from marketing our drugs through enforcement of their proprietary rights that we are not aware of, or third parties may succeed in marketing equivalent or superior drug products. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Commercialization Because we must obtain regulatory clearance or otherwise operate under strict legal requirements in order to test and market our products in the U. S., we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products. A pharmaceutical product cannot generally be marketed in the U.S. until it has completed rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the FDA. Pharmaceutical products typically take many years to satisfy regulatory requirements and require the expenditure of substantial resources depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product and its intended use. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we must submit and receive clearance from the FDA by means of an IND application. Institutional review boards and the FDA oversee clinical trials and such trials: must be conducted in conformance with the FDA regulations; must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight; must meet requirements for informed consent; must meet requirements for good clinical and manufacturing practices; are subject to continuing FDA oversight; may require large numbers of test subjects; and may be suspended by us or the FDA at any time if it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in any of the Company’s IND applications or the conduct of these trials. Before receiving FDA clearance to market a product in the absence of a medical or public health emergency, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective on the patient population that will be treated. Data we obtain from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. Additionally, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials and manufacturing processes necessary to obtain regulatory clearance. 18 If full regulatory clearance of a product is granted, this clearance will be limited only to those states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and efficacious. We cannot ensure that any compound developed by us, alone or with others, will prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and will meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive full marketing clearance. The biopharmaceutical market in which we compete and will compete is highly competitive. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and apply our technologies in the design and development of our product candidates and to establish and maintain a market for our product candidates. There also are many companies, both public and private, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, research and development resources, and human resources than us. Competitors may develop products or other technologies that are more effective than any that are being developed by us or may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly than us. If we commence commercial sales of products, we still must compete in the manufacturing and marketing of such products, areas in which we have no experience. Many of these companies also have manufacturing facilities and established marketing capabilities that would enable such companies to market competing products through existing channels of distribution. Three companies with similar profiles are VaxGen, Inc., which is developing vaccines against anthrax, smallpox and HIV/AIDS; Avant Immunotherapeutics, Inc., which has vaccine programs for agents of biological warfare; and Chimerix, Inc., which is developing an alternative smallpox therapeutic. Our potential products may not be acceptable in the market or eligible for third-party reimbursement resulting in a negative impact on our future financial results. Any product we develop may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of such products; the potential advantage of such products over existing treatment methods; the cost of our products relative to their perceived benefits; and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or utilize any product we may develop. Our ability to generate revenues and income with respect to drugs, if any, developed through the use of our technology will depend, in part, upon the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such drugs will be available from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private healthcare insurers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefits management companies and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly disputing the prices charged for pharmaceutical products. If third-party reimbursement was not available or sufficient to allow profitable price levels to be maintained for drugs we develop, it could adversely affect our business. If our products harm people, we may experience product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to potential product liability claims in the event that drugs we develop are alleged to cause adverse effects on patients. Such risk exists for products being tested in human clinical trials, as well as products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. We have obtained and intend to keep in place product liability insurance with respect to drugs we develop. However, we may not be able to obtain such insurance. Even if such insurance is obtainable, it may not be available at a reasonable cost or in a sufficient amount to protect us against liability. 19 We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market, which could harm sales of the affected products. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur: regulatory approval may be withdrawn; reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products may be required; changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required; sales of the affected products may drop significantly; our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products. Healthcare reform and controls on healthcare spending may limit the price we charge for any products and the amounts that we can sell. The U.S. government and private insurers have considered ways to change, and have changed, the manner in which healthcare services are provided in the U.S. Potential approaches and changes in recent years include controls on healthcare spending and the creation of large purchasing groups. In the future, the U.S. government may institute further controls and limits on healthcare spending, including through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These controls and limits might affect the payments we could collect from sales of any products. Uncertainties regarding future healthcare reform and private market practices could adversely affect our ability to sell any of our products profitably in the U.S. At present, we do not foresee any change in FDA regulatory policies that would adversely affect our development programs. Laws and regulations governing international operations may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain product candidates outside of the United States and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs. As we continue to expand our operations outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to international business operations. The creation and implementation of international business practices compliance programs is costly and such programs are difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the U.S. Department of Justice. The SEC is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical studies and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions. 20 Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. Our expanding presence outside of the United States will require us to dedicate additional resources to compliance with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction of a violation of the FCPA can result in long term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices would have a negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The SEC also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on United States exchanges for violations of the FCPA’s accounting provisions. Risks Related to Manufacturing and Manufacturing Facilities Problems related to large-scale commercial manufacturing could cause us to delay product launches or experience shortages of products. Our drug candidates require several manufacturing steps, and may involve complex techniques to assure quality and sufficient quantity, especially as the manufacturing scale increases. Our products must be made consistently and in compliance with a clearly defined manufacturing process. Accordingly, it is essential to be able to validate and control the manufacturing process to assure that it is reproducible. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including obtaining materials, filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, some of which all pharmaceutical companies, including SIGA, experience from time to time, may result in lot failures, delay in the release of lots, product recalls or spoilage. We will not be able to sell any lot that fails to satisfy release testing specifications. If third parties do not manufacture our drug candidates or products in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable cost or in compliance with regulatory requirements and specifications, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture drug candidates that we require for pre-clinical and clinical development. In addition, we indicated in our response to the BARDA Smallpox RFP that we intend to manufacture ST-246® using contract manufacturers. Any significant delay in obtaining adequate supplies of our drug candidates could adversely affect our ability to develop or commercialize these drug candidates. We expect that we will rely on third parties for a portion of the manufacturing process for commercial supplies of drug candidates that we successfully develop. If our contract manufacturers are unable to scale-up production to generate enough materials for commercial launch, the success of those products may be jeopardized. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our drug candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop drug candidates and commercialize any product that receives regulatory approval on a timely and competitive basis. We currently rely on third parties to demonstrate regulatory compliance and for quality assurance with respect to the drug candidates manufactured for us. We intend to continue to rely on these third parties for these purposes with respect to production of commercial supplies of drugs that we successfully develop. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with applicable regulations. 21 We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with these regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. While our contracts call for compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, we do not control compliance by these manufacturers with these regulations and standards. If we or these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations, sanctions could be imposed on us, which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our drug candidates. Our activities may involve hazardous materials, use of which may subject us to environmental regulatory liabilities. Our biopharmaceutical research and development sometimes involves the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages, and this liability could exceed our resources. The research and development activities of our company do not produce any unusual hazardous products. We do use small amounts of radioactive isotopes commonly used in pharmaceutical research, which are stored, used and disposed of in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. We maintain liability insurance in the amount of approximately $5,000,000 and we believe this should be sufficient to cover any contingent loss. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations and currently do not expect to make material additional capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in the near term. However, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Risks Related to Sales of Biodefense Products to the U.S. Government Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the “DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including: termination of contracts; forfeiture of profits; suspension of payments; fines; and suspension of prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We may be subject to sanction for past non-compliance with certain regulatory audit requirements. In June 2009 we became aware that we did not comply with certain Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) regulations requiring the submission of yearly audited statements to the Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) Office of Audit Services. On September 30, 2009, we submitted the required audits and related statements to the OIG Office of Audit Services. We have asked that the OIG not take any enforcement action in this matter. There can be no assurance that no enforcement action will be taken in this matter and, if taken, whether such enforcement action would have a material adverse impact on our operations. 22 Laws and regulations affecting government contracts might make it more costly and difficult for us to successfully conduct our business. We must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts, which can make it more difficult for us to retain our rights under these contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with federal, state and local government agencies. Among the most significant government contracting regulations that affect our business are: the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and agency-specific regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the procurement, formation, administration and performance of government contracts; the business ethics and public integrity obligations, which govern conflicts of interest and the hiring of former government employees, restrict the granting of gratuities and funding of lobbying activities and incorporate other requirements such as the Anti-Kickback Act and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; export and import control laws and regulations; and laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Risks Related to Regulatory Approvals If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our drug candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate will prevent us from commercializing the drug candidate. We have limited experience in preparing, filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals and expect to rely on third party contract research organizations and consultants to assist us in this process. Securing FDA approval requires the submission to the FDA of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information in order to establish the drug candidate’s safety and efficacy. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective, or may prove to have significant side effects, toxicities, or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions could prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to have our products marketed outside the United States. To market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we may need to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. 23 The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We and our potential future collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The Fast Track designation for ST-246® may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. We have obtained a “Fast Track” designation from the FDA for ST-246®. However, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw our Fast Track designation if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. Our Fast Track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the FDA’s expedited review procedures or that any application that we may submit to the FDA for regulatory approval will be accepted for filing or ultimately approved. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If third parties on whom we rely for clinical trials or certain animal trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our drug candidates and our business may suffer. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical trials, and certain animal trials, required to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We depend on independent investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers to conduct trials of our drug candidates and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these third parties for successful execution of our trials, but do not exercise day-to-day control over their activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our drug candidates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete may decrease if we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technologies, drug targets and potential products and to effectively preserve our trade secrets. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing potential products through the development and regulatory clearance processes to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, we cannot predict the type and breadth of claims allowed in these patents. We have a nonexclusive license from Washington University with respect to one issued U.S. patent. We are also exclusive owner of six U.S. patents and eleven U.S. patent applications. We are also the exclusive owner of two U.S. provisional patent applications. The issued patents have varying lives. 24 We included a summary of our patent positions as of December 31, 2009 in Part I, Item 1 of this document. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and some collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of a relationship with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, confidential information or inventions in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, and adequate remedies may not exist in the event of such unauthorized use or disclosure. If our technologies are alleged or found to infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be sued, we may have to pay damages or be barred from pursuing a technology, or we may have to license those rights to or from others on unfavorable terms. Even if we prevail, such litigation may be costly. Our commercial success will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Our technologies, or the technologies of third parties on which we may depend, may infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. If there is an adverse outcome in any dispute concerning rights to these technologies, then we could be subject to significant liability, required to license disputed rights from or to other parties and/or required to cease using a technology necessary to carry out our research, development and commercialization activities. At present, we are unaware of any patent infringement claim relating to any of our products that is likely to be asserted. The costs to establish or defend against claims of infringement or interference with patents or other proprietary rights can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. An outcome of any patent or proprietary rights administrative proceeding or litigation that is unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on us. We could incur substantial costs if we are required to defend ourselves in suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We may not have sufficient funds or resources in the event of litigation. Additionally, we may not prevail in any such action. Any dispute resulting from claims based on patents and proprietary rights could result in a significant reduction in the coverage of the patents or proprietary rights owned, optioned by or licensed to us and limit our ability to obtain meaningful protection for our rights. If patents are issued to third parties that contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from researching, developing or commercializing potential products or be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may be legally prohibited from using technology owned by others, may not be able to obtain any license to the patents or technologies of third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop alternative technologies. In December 2006, PharmAthene, Inc. (“PharmAthene”) filed an action against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery captioned PharmAthene, Inc. v. SIGA Technologies, Inc., C.A. No. 2627-N. In its amended complaint, PharmAthene asks the Court to order us to enter into a license agreement with PharmAthene with respect to ST-246®, as well as issue a declaration that we are obliged to execute such a license agreement, and award damages resulting from our supposed breach of that obligation. PharmAthene also alleges that we breached an obligation to negotiate such a license agreement in good faith, as well as seeks damages for promissory estoppel and unjust enrichment based on supposed information, capital and assistance that PharmAthene allegedly provided to us during the negotiation process. In January 2008, the Court of Chancery denied our motion to dismiss the original complaint, and discovery proceeded. In May 2009, PharmAthene amended its complaint with respect to its claim for breach of an obligation to negotiate in good faith, and we filed our answer to the amended complaint and counterclaim denying the new claim and asserting defenses. PharmAthene has submitted an expert report asserting several alternative theories of damages, including amounts in a wide range of up to one billion dollars. We believe that the expert’s damages analyses are flawed and methodologically unsound. We also continue to believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims. No trial date has been set. It is not currently possible to estimate a range of loss, if any. 25 In addition, like many biopharmaceutical companies, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. It is possible that we and/or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Other Risks We may have difficulty managing our growth. We might experience growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. This potential future growth could place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to manage this potential growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems and to hire, train and manage our employees. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 