ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. Competition in each of our markets is intense, and our inability to compete effectively could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Competition that we face in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific for our UC solutions and network infrastructure products is intense and it will likely intensify and could place increased pressure on average selling prices for our products. Some of our competitors compete with us in more than one geographic theater and across all of our product categories. Our major global competitor is Cisco Systems. Our other global competitors include Logitech, RADVISION, Avaya, Huawei, and Motorola, Inc. We also compete with other smaller or new industry entrants. Our competitive landscape continues to rapidly evolve as we move into new markets for video collaboration such as mobile, social, and cloud-delivered video. Our competitors also continue to develop and introduce new technologies, sometimes proprietary, that represent threats through closed architecture such as Skype and Apple FaceTime. Other offerings such as Cisco Systems’ CIUS and Jabber, Avaya’s Flare-based ADVD, and Citrix Systems’ GoToMeeting with HD Faces also represent new competitive developments for Polycom. Many of these companies have substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products, which may result in our having to lower our product prices and increase our spending on marketing which will correspondingly have a negative impact on our revenues, operating margins, and our ability to effectively compete against these companies. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include the ability to: • provide and sell a broad range of UC solutions and services, including mobility and cloud-based solutions, and our ability to bring such products to market on a timely basis; • appropriately and competitively price our products and solutions; • provide competitive product performance; • be successful in multiple markets with differing requirements, including, but not limited to, the enterprise, SMB, mobile video, social video, subscription-based video delivered from the cloud and service provider markets; • introduce new products and solutions in a timely manner; • reduce production and service costs; 17 Table of Contents • provide value-added features and functionality such as security, reliability, and investment protection through broad interoperability that provides backwards- and forwards-compatibility with other video systems and UC solutions; • successfully integrate our products with, and operate our products on, existing customer platforms; • gain market presence and brand recognition; • extend credit to our partners; • conform to open standards; and • successfully address disruptive technology shifts and new business models, such as cloud-based, mobility and consumer solutions. Our competitive environment also differs by geography. Cisco Systems is our primary global competitor and is active in all theaters and categories in which we compete. In the Asia Pacific region, the competitive landscape also includes China-based competitors such as Huawei, ZTE Corporation, and other competitors in the region including Sony, Zylotech, ClearOne Communications, and Grandstream Communications. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved performance characteristics. New product introductions by our current or future competitors, or our delay in bringing new products to market to compete with competitive products, could cause a significant decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products and future products. We believe that the possible effects from ongoing competition may be a reduction in the prices of our products and our competitors’ products, the introduction of additional lower priced competitive products or the introduction of new products or product platforms that render our existing products or technologies obsolete. We also believe we will face increasing competition from alternative UC solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies. Further, the commoditization of certain video conferencing products is leading to the availability of alternative, lower-cost UC products than ours, such as those offered by Google, Inc., Skype and others, and, accordingly, could drive down our sales prices and negatively impact our revenues. For example, if Microsoft were to integrate Microsoft Lync with Skype, which it acquired in 2011, this could negatively impact the revenues from our solutions that integrate with Microsoft Lync. Increased consolidation and the formation of strategic partnerships in our industry may lead to increased competition which could adversely affect our business and future results of operations. Strategic partnerships and acquisitions are regularly being formed and announced by our competitors, which may increase competition and result in increased downward pressure on our product prices. For instance, we now compete against Cisco Systems due to its acquisition of Tandberg ASA, previously our largest independent competitor. As a result, we now compete with a larger combined company with significantly greater financial and sales and marketing resources than ours, an extensive channel network and an expanded video communications solutions product line. This product line may be sold in conjunction with Cisco Systems’ proprietary network equipment and technology as a complete solution, making it more difficult for us to compete against them or to ascertain pricing on competitive products. In addition, Cisco Systems may use its dominance in network equipment to foreclose competition in the telepresence and/or videoconferencing equipment market. Cisco Systems may also preclude our competitive products from being fully interoperable with Cisco Systems endpoints, video infrastructure and/or network products. Similarly, Avaya acquired Konftel, in January 2011 and LifeSize, which was acquired by Logitech, announced a partnership with Alcatel-Lucent in April 2010. These consolidations and partnerships have resulted in increased competition and pricing pressure for our UC solutions, which could also negatively impact our future results of operations, as the newly-combined entities have greater financial resources, deeper mass market sales channels and greater pricing flexibility than the standalone entities. Any such acquisitions by a strategic partner could also limit the potential contribution of our 18 Table of Contents strategic relationships to our business, restrict our ability to provide interoperable features in our products and restrict our ability to form strategic relationships with these companies in the future, any of which could result in decreases in both revenues and gross margins and harm our business. It is possible that in the future, we will see increased competition in all of our geographic theaters and product lines to the extent that one or more of our competitors join together either through mutual agreement or acquisitions to form new partnerships to compete against us. Rumored or actual consolidation of our partners and competitors will likely cause uncertainty and disruption to our business and can cause our stock price to fluctuate. Global economic conditions have adversely affected our business in the past and could adversely affect our revenues and harm our business in the future. Adverse economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries and have caused a negative impact on the specific segments and markets in which we operate. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly exposed to adverse changes in general global economic conditions, which can result in reductions in capital expenditures by end-user customers for our products, longer sales cycles, the deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased competition. These factors have adversely impacted our operating results in prior periods and could also impact us again in the future. Despite our growth in revenues in fiscal year 2010 and 2011, global economic concerns such as the varying pace of global economic recovery and the recent sovereign debt crisis in Europe and domestic debt and budget issues continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability, have resulted in longer selling cycles and cause us to continue to be cautious about our future outlook. A global economic downturn would negatively impact technology spending for our products and services and could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity levels in many financial markets, decrease in customer demand and ability to pay obligations, and extreme volatility in credit, equity, foreign currency and fixed income markets. These adverse economic conditions negatively impact our business, particularly our revenue potential, losses on investments and the collectability of our accounts receivable, by causing the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services, customer or partner insolvencies or bankruptcies, decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions resulting in delays in their purchasing decisions, decreased customer demand or demand for lower-end products, and decreased customer ability to pay their obligations when they become due to us. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and are not necessarily a good indicator of future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are out of our control or can be difficult to predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the impact of global economic conditions, as described above; • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to uncertain global economic conditions and increased competition; • our ability to execute on our strategic and operating plans, including improving the effectiveness of our North American sales organization; • changes to our global organization, especially recent changes impacting our leadership and organizational structure in North America; • slowing sales by our channel partners to their customers; 19 Table of Contents • changes to our channel partner programs, contracts and strategy that could result in a reduction in the number of channel partners, could adversely impact our revenues and gross margins as we realign our discount and rebate programs for our channels, or could cause more of our channel partners to add our competitors’ products to their portfolio; • the prices and performance of our products and those of our existing or potential new competitors, which can change rapidly due to technological innovations; • the timing, size and mix of the orders for our products; • the level and mix of inventory that we hold to meet future demand, including the impact of efforts to decrease inventory and improve inventory turns, which could negatively impact our gross margins as a result of under-absorption of our manufacturing costs in any given period; • changes in effective tax rates which are difficult to predict due to, among other things, the timing and geographical mix of our earnings, the outcome of current or future tax audits and potential new rules and regulations; • changes in the underlying factors and assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables used in determining stock-based compensation which may result in significant variability in the stock-based compensation costs we record, making such amounts difficult to accurately predict; • fluctuations in the level of international sales and our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations on both revenues and expenses; • dependence on third party manufacturers, which includes outside development manufacturers, and the associated manufacturing costs; • the impact of increasing costs of freight and components used in the manufacturing of our products and the potential negative impact on our gross margins; • the magnitude of any costs that we must incur in the event of a product recall or of costs associated with product warranty claims; • the impact of seasonality on our various product lines and geographic regions; and • adverse outcomes in intellectual property litigation and other matters and the costs associated with asserting and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio. As a result of these and potentially other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market securities analysts or investors, or below any financial guidance we may provide to the market, our stock price will likely decline. Further, as the scale of our business increases, meeting financial guidance may become less predictable and more difficult to achieve. In addition, financial guidance beyond the current quarter is inherently subject to greater risk and uncertainty. We face risks associated with the realignment of our North America sales organization. Our year-over-year revenue growth rates in North America have recently declined. For example, the revenues generated in North America in the fourth quarter of 2011 declined sequentially from the third quarter of 2011, and our year-over-year growth rates in North America were at the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result, we recently made changes impacting the leadership and structure of our sales organization in North America that are intended to realign and optimize the performance of the region. While the intent of these changes is to replicate the model that we have successfully implemented in EMEA and APAC, there can be no assurance that these changes will positively impact our future revenue performance in North America. Further, such actions have caused disruptions to our business, which could impact our ability to execute successfully in the short-term and ultimately may not yield the intended benefits in the longer term. If the changes are not as successful as we have planned, our revenues and results of operations will be harmed. 20 Table of Contents We face risks associated with developing and marketing our products, including new product development and new product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model. Our success depends on our ability to assimilate new technologies in our products and to properly train our channel partners, sales force and end-user customers in the use of those products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as the demand for HD video technology and lower cost video infrastructure products, the shift from premise-based equipment to cloud-based delivery models, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, including an increased emphasis on software products. Historically, our focus has been on premise-based solutions for the enterprise and public sector, targeted at vertical markets, including finance, manufacturing, government, education and healthcare, and this continues to be a high-growth market as recognition of the mission-critical benefits of video collaboration in the enterprise continues to grow. In addition, in response to emerging market trends, and the network effect driven by business-to-business adoption of UC, we are expanding our focus to capture opportunities within emerging markets including mobile, SMBs, cloud-based delivery and the consumer markets. If we are unable to successfully capture these markets to the extent anticipated, or to develop the new technologies and partnerships required to successfully compete in these marketplaces, then our revenues may not grow as anticipated, we may devote significant financial and other resources to these areas, and our business may ultimately be harmed. For example, we recently launched Polycom RealPresence Mobile and are at the early stages of the formation of our relationships with Samsung, Motorola, and others with respect to defining our mobility product offerings. Given the competitive nature of the mobility industry, changing end user behaviors and other industry dynamics, these relationships may not evolve into fully-developed product offerings or translate into any future revenues. Further, we are sponsoring the OVCC to leverage a global consortium of network and managed service providers to deliver broad connectivity service for unified communications and enable better business-to-business communication. The OVCC may not be as successful as we have planned, which could negatively impact our ability to deliver solutions for these markets. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction of new products, proper positioning of new products in relation to our total product portfolio and their relative pricing, our ability to price our products competitively while maintaining favorable product margins, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. Other factors that may affect our success include properly addressing the complexities associated with compatibility issues, channel partner and sales force training, technical and sales support, and field support. In addition, we are making additional investments in developing our immersive telepresence solutions and other product innovations as part of our key strategic initiatives to deliver cloud-based and mobile UC solutions. For example, we have announced a strategy to enable service providers to deliver VaaS through the Polycom RealPresence Cloud offering. Ultimately, it is possible that our increased investments in these areas may not yield the financial results that we plan to achieve from such investments as quickly as anticipated, or at all. In addition, in our high-end UC solutions, such as telepresence, that typically require direct high touch sales involvement with potential customers, we compete directly with large, multi-national corporations, such as Cisco Systems, who have substantially greater financial, technical and executive resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition and market presence with many potential customers. We and our channel partners must also effectively educate our potential end-user customers about the benefits of unified communication solutions and the products that we offer and the features available over those of our competitors. We also need to continually educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion as to desirability of new product offerings compared to our existing product offerings and to be able to articulate the value of new offerings as the market evolves . During the last few years, we launched several new product offerings, such as our mobility and cloud-based solutions, and there is a risk that these new products could cause confusion among our channel partners and end-users, thereby causing them to delay purchases of any product until they determine if these products are more desirable products than our other products. Any delays in future purchases could 21 Table of Contents adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and operating results in the period of the delay. In addition, the introduction of new products may have an unintended negative impact on sales of and corresponding revenues associated with other products. The shift in communications from circuit-switched to IP-based and other new technologies over time may require us to add new channel partners, enter new markets and gain new core technological competencies. We are attempting to address these needs and the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts, through joint developments with other companies and through acquisitions. However, we may not identify successful new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely manner. Further, as we introduce new products that can or will render existing products obsolete, these product transition cycles may not go smoothly, causing an increased risk of inventory obsolescence and relationship issues with our end-user customers and channel partners. The failure of our new product development efforts, any inability to service or maintain the necessary third-party interoperability licenses, our inability to properly manage product transitions or to anticipate new product demand, or our inability to enter new markets would harm our business and results of operations. We may experience delays in product introductions and availability, and our products may contain defects which could seriously harm our results of operations. We have experienced delays in the introduction of certain new products and enhancements in the past. The delays in product release dates that we experienced in the past have been due to factors such as unforeseen technology issues, manufacturing ramping issues and other factors, which we believe negatively impacted our sales revenue in the relevant periods. Any of these or other factors may occur again and delay our future product releases. Our product development groups are dispersed throughout the United States and other international locations such as China, Denmark, India and Israel. Our need to manage large and geographically dispersed product development groups in our product lines results in certain inefficiencies and increased product development costs and creates an increased risk of delays in new product introductions. We produce highly complex communications equipment, which includes both hardware and software and incorporates new technologies and component parts from different suppliers. Resolving product defect and technology and quality issues could cause delays in new product introduction. Component part shortages, such as those we experienced in the first half of 2010, could also cause delays in product delivery to our customers and lead to increased costs as we are required to expedite shipping to meet our product order requests. Further, some defects may not be detected or cured prior to a new product launch, or may be detected after a product has already been launched and may be incurable or result in a product recall. The occurrence of any of these events has resulted and could in the future result in the failure of a partial or entire product line or a temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from the market. We may also have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems, including product reengineering expenses and inventory, warranty and replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others and could harm our reputation and adversely affect future sales of our products. Any delays in the future for new product offerings currently under development, such as product offerings for the mobile, cloud-based delivery and consumer markets, any product shipment delays or any product quality issues, product defect issues or product recalls could adversely affect the market acceptance of these products (and correspondingly result in loss of market share), our ability to compete effectively in the market, and our reputation and the satisfaction of our customers, and therefore could lead to decreased product sales and could seriously harm our results of operations. We may also experience cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-user customers. 22 Table of Contents Product obsolescence or discontinuance and excess inventory can negatively affect our results of operations. We operate in a high technology industry which is subject to rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes. The pace of change in technology development and in the release of new products has increased and is expected to continue to increase, which can often render existing or developing technologies obsolete. In addition, the introduction of new products and any related actions to discontinue existing products can cause existing inventory to become obsolete. These obsolescence issues, or any failure by us to properly anticipate product life cycles, can require write-downs in inventory value when it is determined that the recorded value of existing inventory is greater than its fair market value. If sales of one of these products has an unplanned negative effect on sales of another of our products, it could significantly increase the inventory levels of the negatively impacted product. For each of our products, the potential exists for new products to render existing products obsolete, cause inventories of existing products to increase, cause us to discontinue a product or reduce the demand for existing products. Further, we continually evaluate our product lines both strategically and in terms of potential growth rates and margins. Such evaluations could result in the discontinuance or divestiture of those products in the future, which could be disruptive and costly and may not yield the intended benefits. We face risks related to the adoption rate of new technologies. We have invested significant resources developing products that are dependent on the adoption rate of new technologies. For example, our Polycom RealPresence Mobile solution is dependent on enterprise adoption of video technology and cloud-based delivery solutions on mobile devices. If the mobile video market does not grow as we anticipate, or if our strategy for addressing the market, or execution of such strategy, is not successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we develop new products or product enhancements based upon anticipated demand for new features and functionality, such as next generation HD video resolution technology and scalable video codec capabilities. We may not be able to sell certain of our products in significant volumes and our business may be harmed if the use of new technologies that our future products are based on does not occur; if we do not anticipate shifts in technology appropriately or rapidly enough; if the development of suitable sales channels does not occur, or occurs more slowly than expected; if our products that incorporate new technologies are not priced competitively or are not readily adopted; or if the adoption rates of such new technologies do not drive demand for our other products as we anticipate. For example, although we believe increased sales of UC solutions will drive increased demand for our network infrastructure products, such increased demand may not occur or we may not benefit to the same extent as our competitors. We also may not be successful in creating demand in our installed customer base for products that we develop that incorporate new technologies or features. Conversely, as we see the adoption rate of new technologies increase, product sales of our legacy products may be negatively impacted. Lower than expected market acceptance of our products, price competition and other price changes would negatively impact our business. If the market does not accept our products, particularly our new product offerings on which we are relying on for future revenues, such as product offerings for the mobile market and cloud-based delivery, our profitability would be harmed. Further, revenues relating to new product offerings are unpredictable, and new products typically have lower gross margins for a period of time after their introduction. As we introduce new products, they could increasingly become a higher percentage of our revenues. Our profitability could also be negatively affected in the future as a result of continuing competitive price pressures in the sale of UC solutions equipment and network infrastructure products, which could cause us to reduce the prices for any of our product offerings or discontinue one or more of our products with the intent of simplifying our product offering and enhancing sales of a similar product. . Further, we have reduced prices in the past in order to expand the market for our products, and in the future, we may further reduce prices, introduce new products that carry lower margins in order to expand the market or stimulate demand for our products, or discontinue existing products as a means of stimulating growth in a similar product. 23 Table of Contents Finally, if we do not fully anticipate, understand and fulfill the needs of end-user customers in the vertical markets that we serve, we may not be able to fully capitalize on product sales into those vertical markets and our revenues may, accordingly, fail to grow as anticipated or may be adversely impacted. We face similar risks as we expand and focus our business on the SMB and service provider markets. Failure to adequately service and support our product offerings could harm our results of operations. Our products are becoming increasingly more complex and are incorporating more complex technologies, such as those included in our network infrastructure, UC solutions and software products. This has increased the need for enhanced product warranty and service capabilities. In order to meet the demand for these enhanced service requirements, we may need to internally develop or acquire additional advanced service capabilities, which may require additional investments. If we cannot adequately develop and train our internal support organization or maintain our relationship with our outside technical support provider, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, sales of our immersive telepresence solutions are more complex sales transactions than our other product lines, and the end-user customer in such transactions typically purchases an enhanced level of support service from us so that it can ensure that this significant investment can be fully operational and satisfy the end-user’s requirements. This requires an advanced services capability and project management from us in terms of resources and technical knowledge of an end-user customer’s telecommunication network. If we are unable to provide the proper level of support on a cost beneficial basis, it may cause damage to our reputation in this emerging market and may, as a result, harm our business and results of operations. Impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations. In addition to our historical acquisitions, we have acquired a number of new businesses including most recently, ViVu, the assets of HPVC and Accordent in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our goodwill was valued at approximately $584.2 million and other purchased intangible assets was valued at approximately $78.9 million, which together represent a significant portion of the assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or sooner under certain circumstances. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating fundamentals, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a charge to operations will not occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. The decreases in revenue and stock price that have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of global economic factors make such impairment more likely to result. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write-down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values. If and when these write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have made investments in private companies which we classify as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The value of these investments is influenced by many factors, including the operating effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies’ industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. As of December 31, 2011, our investments in private companies were valued at $2.0 million. We recorded $0.1 million in impairment charges, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2011 in interest and other income/(expense), net. We may make additional investments in private companies which would be subject to similar impairment risks, and these impairment risks may cause us to write-down the recorded value of any such investments. Further, we cannot assure you that future inventory, investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not happen. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Difficulties in identifying and integrating our acquisitions or implementing restructuring plans could adversely impact our business. Difficulties in identifying and integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business. The process of identifying suitable candidates and integrating acquired companies into our operations requires significant resources and is time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, to retain key personnel, or to successfully integrate the operations of these companies could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from our acquisitions because of the following significant challenges: • incorporating the acquired company’s technology and products and services into our current and future product lines, including providing new services for us such as the managed services business that was acquired in the HPVC acquisition; • potential deterioration of the acquired company’s product sales and corresponding revenues due to integration activities and management distraction; • managing integration issues including, in the case of our acquisition of HPVC, the continuing provisioning of transition services by HP to us; • potentially creating confusion in the marketplace by ineffectively distinguishing or marketing the product offerings of the newly acquired company with our existing product lines, including the impact of competing products on acquired product and services revenue streams; • entering new businesses or product lines; • potentially incompatible cultural differences between the two companies; • geographic dispersion of operations; • interruption of manufacturing operations as we transition an acquired company’s manufacturing to our outsourced manufacturing model; • generating marketing demand for an expanded product line; • distraction of the existing and acquired sales force during the integration of the companies; • the difficulty in leveraging the acquired company’s and our combined technologies and capabilities across all product lines and customer bases; and • our inability to retain previous customers or employees of an acquired company. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources identifying and acquiring businesses. Any of our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in identifying targets with strategic synergies which yield an acceptable level of return on investment, financing strategic transactions and integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, particularly when dealing with the integration of large and complex organizations, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of the companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additional costs associated with any future acquisitions we may make. Our failure to successfully implement restructuring plans related to vacant and redundant facilities could adversely impact our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, as part of acquiring a company or as part of restructuring actions taken to streamline the business, identify redundant facilities. If we identify redundant facilities, we would 25 Table of Contents develop a plan to exit as part of the integration of the businesses or as part of the implementation of the restructuring plan. Any reserve would be net of estimated sublease income we expect to generate. Our estimate of sublease income is based on current comparable rates for leases in the respective markets. If actual sublease income is lower than our estimates for any reason, if it takes us longer than we estimated to sublease these facilities, or if the associated cost of subleasing or terminating our lease obligations for these facilities is greater than we estimated, we would incur additional charges to operations which would harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any such cash outflows or additional costs exceed the amount of our recorded liability related to the sublease or termination of these lease obligations, we could incur a charge to operations, which would harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. We experience seasonal demand for our products and services, which may adversely impact our results of operations during certain periods. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our first and third quarters. For example, the first quarter of the year is typically the least predictable quarter of the year for us and there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the European region in the third quarter of each year. Further, the timing of fiscal year ends for our government and enterprise customers may result in significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales may occur at the end of a quarter and certain of our service provider contracts include contractual acceptance provisions. The timing of our channel partner orders and product shipments and our inability to reduce expenses quickly may adversely impact our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend in large part upon the volume and timing of channel partner orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as revenue during each quarter, each of which is extremely difficult to forecast. We have experienced longer sales cycles in connection with our high-end UC solutions, which could also increase the level of unpredictability and fluctuation in the timing of orders. Further, depending upon the complexity of these solutions, such as telepresence and some network infrastructure products, and the underlying contractual terms, revenue may not be recognized until the product has been accepted by the end-user, resulting in further revenue unpredictability. Our expectations for both short and long-term future revenues are based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand and not on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, a significant portion of our product orders are received in the last month of a quarter, typically the last few weeks of that quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. For instance, since the second quarter of 2011, we have experienced a higher percentage of our bookings and resulting revenue in the third month of the quarter than in comparable periods in 2010. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, approximately 50% of our quarterly revenues were recognized in the third month of the quarter, as compared to 41% in the third month of the fourth quarter of 2010. Accordingly, if for any reason orders and revenues do not meet our expectations in a particular period, we will be limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly, and any significant shortfall in demand for our products in relation to our expectations would have an adverse impact on our operating results. Delays in receiving contractual acceptance will cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue and may impact our quarterly revenues, depending upon the timing and shipment of orders under such contracts. Certain of our sales contracts include product acceptance provisions which vary depending upon the type of product and individual terms of the contract. In addition, acceptance criteria may be required in other contracts in 26 Table of Contents the future, depending upon the size and complexity of the sale and the type of products ordered. As we increase our focus on growing our service provider business, it is likely that an increased amount of our revenue will be subject to such contractual acceptance terms. Accordingly, we defer revenue until the underlying acceptance criteria in any given contract have been met. Depending upon the acceptance terms, the timing of the receipt and subsequent shipment of an order may result in acceptance delays, may reduce the predictability of our revenues, and, consequently, may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations in any particular quarter. We face risks related to our dependence on channel partners to sell our products. Conflicts and competition with our channel partners and strategic partners could hurt sales of our products. We have various OEM agreements with major telecommunications equipment manufacturers, such as Avaya and Cisco Systems, whereby we manufacture our products to work with the equipment of the OEM. These relationships can create conflicts with our other channel partners who directly compete with our OEM partners, or could create conflicts among our OEM partners who compete with each other, which could adversely affect revenues from these other channel partners or our OEM partners. Conflicts among our OEM partners could also make continued partnering with these OEM partners increasingly difficult. Our OEM partners, including large competitors such as Cisco Systems, may decide to enter into a new OEM partnership with a company other than us or develop products of their own, or acquire such products through acquisition, that compete with ours in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because many of our channel partners also sell equipment that competes with our products, these channel partners could devote more attention to these other products which could harm our business. Further, as a result of our more direct-touch sales model, we may alienate some of our channel partners or cause a shift in product sales from our traditional channel model as these traditional relationships evolve over time. Due to these and other factors, channel conflicts could arise which cause channel partners to devote resources to other non-Polycom communications equipment, or to offer new products from our new and existing competitors, which would negatively affect our business or results of operations. As part of our key strategic initiatives, we are focusing on our strategic partnerships with HP, IBM, Microsoft and Apple. For example, in conjunction with our acquisition of HP’s HPVC business, HP and Polycom have entered into a strategic relationship in which we will serve as an exclusive partner to HP for certain video unified communications solutions for both resale and internal HP deployments. This exclusivity is limited to the Polycom telepresence, group video systems, and UC network infrastructure product offerings available at the applicable time during the exclusivity period and does not preclude the purchase or resale of Microsoft products sold and developed in these categories. Defining, managing and developing these partnerships is expensive and time consuming and may not come to fruition or yield the desired results, impacting our ability to effectively compete in the unified communications market and to take advantage of anticipated future market growth. For example, our key strategic relationship with Microsoft in which we are jointly developing and marketing a unified communications solution that leverages the demand for Microsoft’s next generation UC server could negatively impact our ability to compete effectively in the UC marketplace if we are unsuccessful. Our mobile UC solutions initiative is also dependent on our ability to successfully partner with mobile device manufacturers. In addition, as we enter into agreements with these strategic partners to enable us to continue to expand our relationships with these partners, we may undertake additional obligations which could trigger unintended penalty or other provisions in the event that we fail to fully perform our contractual commitments or could result in additional costs beyond those that are planned in order to meet these contractual obligations. As we continue to build strategic partnerships with companies, conflicts between our strategic partners could arise which could harm our business. Some of our current and future products are directly competitive with the products sold by both our channel and strategic partners. As a consequence of these conflicts, there is the potential for our channel and strategic partners to compete head-to-head with us and to significantly reduce or eliminate their orders of our products or 27 Table of Contents design our technology out of their products. Further, some of our products are reliant on strategic partnerships with call manager providers and wireless network infrastructure providers. These partnerships result in interoperable features between products to deliver a total solution to our mutual end-user customers. Competition with our partners in all of the markets in which we operate is likely to increase, potentially resulting in strains on our existing relationships with these companies. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ sales reporting, product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. Our revenue estimates associated with products stocked by some of our channel partners are based largely on end-user sales reports that our channel partners provide to us on a monthly basis. To date, we believe this data has been generally accurate. To the extent that this sales-out and channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received timely, we may not be able to make revenue estimates for future periods. Further, if these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a recurrence of global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenues would be negatively affected. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, or product returns may exceed historical or predicted levels, which would harm our business. Potential changes to our channel partner programs or channel partner contracts may not be favorably received and as a result our channel partner relationships and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our channel partners are eligible to participate in various incentive programs, depending upon their contractual arrangements with us. As part of these arrangements, we have the right to make changes in our programs and launch new programs as business conditions warrant. Further, from time to time, we may make changes to our channel partner contracts. These changes could upset our channel partners to the extent that they could add competitive products to their portfolios, delay advertising or sales of our products, or shift more emphasis to selling our competitors’ products, if not appropriately handled. There can be no assurance that our channel partners will be receptive to future changes or that we will receive the positive benefits that we are anticipating in making any program and contractual changes. Consolidation of our channel partners and strategic partners may result in changes to our overall business relationships, less favorable contractual terms and disruption to our business. We have seen consolidation among certain of our existing channel partners and strategic partners. In such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity. Further, our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be limited. For instance, the combined entity may be successful in negotiating the most favorable contractual terms out of each of their respective contracts, including terms such as credit and acceptance, which are less favorable than those in our existing contracts with each channel partner. Depending on the extent of these changes and other disruptions caused to the combined businesses during the integration period, the timing and extent of revenue from these channel partners may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the success of the businesses of our channel partners and our financing program. Many of our channel partners that carry multiple Polycom products, and from whom we derive significant revenues, are thinly capitalized. Although we perform ongoing evaluations of the creditworthiness of our channel 28 Table of Contents partners, the failure of these businesses to establish and sustain profitability, obtain financing or adequately fund capital expenditures could have a significant negative effect on our future revenue levels and profitability and our ability to collect our receivables. As we have grown our revenues and our customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. In addition, global economic uncertainty, a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries, and the financial services crisis have restricted the availability of capital, which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy, jeopardizing the collectability of our revenues from such channel partners and negatively impacting our future results as they reorganize or go out of business. Further, we intend to increase our end-user financing program to support our Software-as-a-Service and cloud business models, which will also increase our credit risk. Efforts to develop these programs will require significant resources that may not generate the revenue we anticipate or yield intended benefits. Our channel partner contracts are typically short-term and early termination of these contracts may harm our results of operations. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our channel partners, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our channel partners. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the channel partner. In the event of an early termination by one of our major channel partners, we believe that the end-user customer would likely purchase from another one of our channel partners. If this did not occur and we were unable to rapidly replace that revenue source, its loss would harm our results of operations. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses and risks inherent in international operations could harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses, and we anticipate that international sales will continue to increase and to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future and that international operating expenses will continue to increase. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, international revenues represented 59% of our total revenues. International sales and expenses are subject to certain inherent risks, which would be amplified if our international business grows as anticipated, including the following: • adverse economic conditions in international markets, including the restricted credit environment; • potential foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility of the U.S. dollar, and the impact of our underlying hedging programs; • environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • longer payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the near and long-term impact of the instability in the Middle East or other hostilities; and • adverse economic impact of terrorist attacks and incidents and any military response to those attacks. International revenues may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in the future as we introduce new products. These fluctuations are primarily the result of our practice of introducing new products in North America first and the additional time and costs required for product homologation and regulatory approvals of new products in international markets. To the extent we are unable to expand international sales in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. 29 Table of Contents Although to date, a substantial majority of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. currency, we expect that a growing number of sales will be denominated in non-U.S. currencies as more international customers request billing in their currency. In particular, with the acquisition of HP’s HPVC business, a number of the customer contracts that we assumed provided for local currency billings. We maintain local currency pricing in the European Union and the United Kingdom whereby we price and invoice our products and services in Euros and British Pounds. In addition, some of our competitors currently invoice in foreign currency, which could be a disadvantage to us in those markets where we do not. Our international operating expenses are primarily denominated in foreign currency with no offsetting revenues in those currencies except for the Euro and British Pound. As a result of these factors, we expect our business will be vulnerable to currency fluctuations, which could adversely impact our margins. In addition, significant adverse changes in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in revenue or profitability in that country, as discounts may be temporarily or permanently affected. We will continue to evaluate whether it is necessary to denominate sales in local currencies other than the Euro and the British Pound, depending on customer requirements. While we do not hedge for speculative purposes, as a result of our increased exposure to currency fluctuations, such as we have seen in the Euro and British Pound in 2010, we typically engage in currency hedging activities to mitigate currency fluctuation exposure. As a result, our hedging costs can vary depending upon the size of our hedge program, whether we are purchasing or selling foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar and interest rates spreads between the U.S. and other foreign markets. As a result, interest and other income (expense), net has become less predictable and more difficult to forecast. Due to the denomination of our European product sales in Euros and of our United Kingdom product sales in British Pounds, we have increased our hedging activity. The impact in any given quarter of our hedging programs is dependent upon a number of factors, including the actual level of foreign currency denominated revenues, the percentage of actual revenues covered by our hedge contracts, the exchange rate in our underlying hedge contracts and the actual exchange rate during the quarter. For example, as a result of our program, in the first, second and third quarters of 2011, we reduced operating income by $0.5 million, $2.4 million, and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to increasing operating income in the fourth quarter of 2011, the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2010 by $0.3 million, $0.5 million, $1.7 million, $1.4 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. Difficulties we may encounter managing a substantially larger business could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully attract and retain highly qualified management personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain highly qualified senior executives and other key management personnel. For example, we recently made changes impacting our sales leadership and organizational structure in North America. In addition, we recently announced the retirement of our current Chief Financial Officer and the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer effective February 21, 2012. As these new executives and sales leaders assess their areas of responsibilities and define their organizations, it will likely result in disruption to the business and additional organizational changes or restructuring actions and charges. Future changes to our executive and senior management teams, including new executive hires or departures, or other organizational changes implemented by our executive leadership team, could cause disruption to the business and have an impact on our ability to execute successfully in future periods, particularly with respect to the execution of our go-to-market strategy and the expected resulting revenues, while these operational areas are in transition. Competition for qualified executive and other management personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel, which could harm our business. We have experienced significant growth in our business and operations due to internal expansion and business acquisitions, and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and any future growth, our operating results may be negatively affected. Our business has grown in recent years through internal expansion and business acquisitions and we announced several key strategic imperatives for 2012 that we are undertaking to further grow our business, 30 Table of Contents including developing our cloud-based UC solutions, delivering our UC solutions to mobile platforms, focusing our strategic R&D and go-to-market investments on Microsoft, IBM, HP, and Apple, growing the RealPresence Platform, and leveraging growth market opportunities. Our execution against our strategic imperatives may cause strain on our organizational resources and may not ultimately result in the return on investment that is anticipated. Further, continued growth in general, which may include growth through business acquisitions, such as our acquisitions in 2011, may continue to cause a significant strain on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including information technology and processes, financial operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing headcount and capital in an efficient manner. For example, our information technology systems may not grow at a sufficient rate to keep up with the processing and information demands placed on them by a much larger company. We plan to upgrade and expand our information technology systems and underlying business processes, which will be costly and disruptive to our business. Our inability to do so could harm our business. Similarly, revenues may not grow at a sufficient rate to absorb the costs associated with a larger overall headcount. In addition, we must continue to evolve our processes, such as the process we use for collecting customer information, to take advantage of automation tools as the size of our business grows, or the processes that we developed when we were a smaller company may not be sustainable and could cause harm to our business. We also may be less able to predict and effectively control our operating expenses due to the growth and increasing complexity of our business. We have a Shared Services Center (“SSC”) in Beijing, China, where we perform certain accounting, order entry and other functions previously performed in regional headquarter locations and we may expand our SSC operations in the future. Efforts to globalize these shared functions into one location may not yield the intended benefits and could result in higher turnover than planned, which could have an adverse effect on these functions during the transition. In addition, if the controls we put in place with respect to the SSC fail to operate effectively, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have in the past, and we may again in the future, implement restructuring plans to eliminate or relocate positions in order to reallocate resources to more strategic growth areas of the business or to reduce our operating costs. Such restructuring actions resulted in charges to operations of $9.4 million, $8.1 million, and $15.9 million that we recorded as restructuring costs during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Any organizational disruptions associated with restructuring activities would require increased management attention and financial expenditures, or we may discover we terminated the wrong personnel or cut too deeply, which may impact our operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, if we experience a shortfall in resources or if we must take additional restructuring charges, our results of operations will be harmed. We have limited supply sources for some key components of our products and services and for the outside development and manufacture of certain of our products, and our operations could be harmed by supply or service interruptions, component defects or unavailability of these components or products. Some key components used in our products are currently available from only one source and others are available from only a limited number of sources, including some key integrated circuits and optical elements. Because of such limited sources for component parts, we may have little or no ability to procure these parts on favorable pricing terms. We also obtain certain plastic housings, metal castings, batteries, and other components from suppliers located in China, Japan, and certain Southeast Asia countries, and any political or economic instability in that region in the future, natural disasters, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or future import restrictions, may cause delays or an inability to obtain these supplies. Further, we have suppliers in Israel and the military action in Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan or war with other Middle Eastern countries perceived as a threat by the United States government may cause delays or an inability to obtain supplies for our network infrastructure products. We have no raw material supply commitments from our suppliers and generally purchase components on a purchase order basis either directly or through our contract manufacturers. Some of the components included in 31 Table of Contents our products, such as microprocessors and other integrated circuits, have from time to time been subject to limited allocations by suppliers. In addition, companies with limited or uncertain financial resources manufacture some of these components. Further, we do not always have direct control over the supply chain, as many of our component parts are procured for us by our contract manufacturers. In the event that we, or our contract manufacturers, are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of components, develop alternative sources as needed, or companies with limited financial resources go out of business, our operating results could be seriously harmed. For example, the recent flooding in Thailand has affected certain of our suppliers, which could negatively impact the supply of components for some of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to resolve these supply shortages, which would negatively impact our gross margins, as we have seen in recent quarters. Moreover, we have strategic relationships with third parties to develop and manufacture certain products for us. The loss of any such strategic relationship due to competitive reasons, our inability to resolve any contractual disputes that may arise between us, the financial instability of a strategic partner or a supplier or their inability to obtain any financing necessary to adequately fund their operations, particularly in light of the unpredictable economic environment, or other factors, could have a negative impact on our ability to produce and sell certain products and product lines and, consequently, may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. For example, we are dependent upon third party suppliers for our managed services. In the event that any such supplier is acquired by a competitor or faces financial difficulty, such event creates a risk of managed service discontinuity for our customers while we search for a replacement provider and may materially adversely affect our ability to sell our telepresence products. Additionally, our HDX solutions and network system products are designed based on digital signal processors and integrated circuits produced by Texas Instruments and cameras produced by JVC. If we could no longer obtain integrated circuits or cameras from these suppliers, we would incur substantial expense and take substantial time in redesigning our products to be compatible with components from other manufacturers, and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in obtaining these components from alternative sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. The failure to obtain adequate supplies of vital components could prevent or delay product shipments, which could harm our business. We also rely on the introduction schedules of some key components in the development or launch of new products. Any delays in the availability of these key components could harm our business. Finally, our operating results would be seriously harmed by receipt of a significant number of defective components or components that fail to fully comply with environmental or other regulatory requirements, an increase in component prices, such as the price increases for components as a result of increased transportation and manufacturing costs of our suppliers, or our inability to obtain lower component prices in response to competitive price reductions. If we experience manufacturing disruptions or capacity constraints or our manufacturers fail to comply with laws or standards, our business would be harmed. We subcontract the manufacture of most of our products to Celestica, Askey, Flextronics, Foxconn and VTech, which are all third-party contract manufacturers. We use Celestica’s facilities in Thailand and China, Flextronics’ facilities in Mexico and Askey’s, Foxconn’s, and VTech’s facilities in China and should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, terrorist acts, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or economic or political difficulties in any of these countries or Asia or for any other reason, such disruption would harm our business and results of operations. While we have begun to develop secondary manufacturing sources for certain products, Celestica’s facilities are currently the manufacturer for substantially all of these products, which means we are essentially sole-sourced for the manufacturing of such products, and if Celestica experiences an interruption in operations, suffers from capacity constraints, which may include constraints based on production demands from us as we grow our business, or is otherwise unable to meet our current or future production requirements we would experience a delay or inability to ship our products, which 32 Table of Contents would have an immediate negative impact on our revenues. Moreover, any incapacitation of any of our or our subcontractors’ manufacturing sites due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation. In addition, operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. Finally, certain of our thinly capitalized subcontractors may fail or be detrimentally harmed in the unpredictable economic environment, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, we expect our contractors to meet certain standards of conduct, including standards related to the environment, health and safety and general working conditions. Significant or continuing noncompliance of such standards or local laws could harm our reputation or cause us to experience disruptions that could harm our business and results of operations. We face risks relating to changes in rules and regulations of the FCC and other regulatory agencies. Our products and services are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, new laws and regulations or new or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations could deny or delay our access to certain markets or require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The telecommunications industry is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) in the United States and similar government agencies in other countries and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate now or in the future, in the United States or other countries could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including our newly acquired managed services offering. Further, changes in the regulation of our activities, such as increased or decreased regulation affecting prices, could also have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those rights we have, our business could be materially impaired. We rely on third-party license agreements and termination or impairment of these agreements may cause delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments which could harm our business. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software incorporated into our products. In addition, certain of our products are developed and manufactured based largely or solely on third-party technology. These third-party software licenses and arrangements may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays or reductions in new product introductions or current product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, licensed and integrated, if at all possible, which could harm our business and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to obtain necessary technology licenses on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, we could be prohibited from marketing our products, forced to market products without certain features, or incur substantial costs to redesign our products, defend legal actions, or pay damages. In addition, some of our products may include “open source” software. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies incorporating open source software may be restricted because, among other factors, open source license terms may be unclear and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our product offerings. 33 Table of Contents We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Others may independently develop similar proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our intellectual property rights or disclose such technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the U.S. or foreign countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents. In addition, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, and we could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Further, our intellectual property protection controls across our global operations may not be adequate to fully protect us from the theft or misappropriation of our intellectual property, which could adversely harm our business. We face intellectual property infringement claims and other litigation claims that might be costly to resolve and, if resolved adversely, may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits (patent-related and otherwise) in the normal course of our business. The results of, and costs associated with, complex litigation matters are difficult to predict, and the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition, and reputation. Negative developments with respect to pending lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline, and an unfavorable resolution of any particular lawsuit could have an adverse and possibly material effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may become involved in matters such as regulatory investigations or other governmental or private legal proceedings, which could result in requests for information from us that could be distracting, expensive and time consuming for us while we comply with such requests, and, if public, may also cause our stock price to be negatively impacted. We expect that the number and significance of claims and legal proceedings that assert patent infringement claims or other intellectual property rights covering our products, either directly against us or against our customers, will increase as our business expands. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts to third parties pursuant to contractual indemnity provisions. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. An unfavorable outcome in any such claim or proceeding could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations for the period in which the unfavorable outcome occurs, and potentially in future periods. Further, any settlement announced by us may expose us to further claims against us by third parties seeking monetary or other damages which, even if unsuccessful, would divert management attention from the business and cause us to incur costs, possibly material, to defend such matters. If we fail to manage our exposure to the volatility and economic uncertainty in the global financial marketplace successfully, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to financial risk associated with the global financial markets, which includes volatility in interest rates, uncertainty in the credit markets and the recent instability in the foreign currency exchange market. Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, maintain adequate liquidity and portfolio diversification while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, a majority of our marketable investments include debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate debt securities, bank certificates of deposit and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. 34 Table of Contents The valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings or quality of the securities, interest rate changes, the ongoing strength and quality of the global credit market and liquidity. All of the securities in our investment portfolio are investment-grade rated, but the instability of the credit market could impact those ratings and our decision to hold these securities, if they do not meet our minimum credit rating requirements. If we should decide to sell such securities, we may suffer losses in principal value that have significantly declined in value due to the declining credit rating of the securities and the ongoing strength and the global financial markets as a whole. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write-down the value of our investments. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment or losses on our investments. With the instability in the financial markets, we could incur significant realized or other than temporary impairment losses associated with certain of our investments which would reduce our net income. We may also incur further temporary impairment charges requiring us to record additional unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income. A significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily currencies in Europe and Asia. As a response to the risks of changes in value of foreign currency denominated transactions, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments to mitigate these risks. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business or hedge the full amount of each exposure identified. The translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will impact net revenues, operating expenses and net income as a result of fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. Accordingly, such amounts denominated in foreign currencies may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. For example, as a result of our cash flow hedging program, in the first, second, and third quarters of 2011, we reduced operating income by $0.5 million, $2.4 million, and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to increasing operating income in the fourth quarter of 2011, the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2010 by $0.3 million, $0.5 million, $1.7 million, $1.4 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. Delays or loss of government contracts or failure to obtain required government certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. We sell our products indirectly and provide services to governmental entities in accordance with certain regulated contractual arrangements. While reporting and compliance with government contracts is both our responsibility and the responsibility of our partner, our or our partner’s lack of reporting or compliance could have an impact on the sales of our products to government agencies. Further, the United States Federal government has certain certification and product requirements for products sold to them. If we are unable to meet applicable certification or other requirements within the timeframes specified by the United States Federal government, or if our competitors have certifications for competitive products for which we are not yet certified, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we were able to assert in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2011, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our control framework may suffer if we are unable to adapt our control framework appropriately as we continue to grow our business. If we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Changing laws and increasingly complex corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changing laws, regulations and standards, including those relating to corporate governance, anticorruption and public disclosure such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the UK Anti-Bribery Act, and newly enacted SEC regulations, have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. While we believe we are compliant with laws and regulations in jurisdictions where we do business, we must continue to monitor and assess our compliance in the future. In addition, given the growth and expansion of our business, we must continue to expand our compliance procedures. Any failures in these procedures in the future could result in time consuming and costly activities, potential fines and penalties, and diversion of management time, all of which could hurt our business. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or result in changes to our business operations in support of such changes. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. Changes in our tax rates could adversely affect our future results. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates, which are difficult to predict, could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit which has occurred for 2012, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Further, the accounting for stock compensation expense in accordance with ASC 718 and uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 could result in more unpredictability and variability to our future effective tax rates. We are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and in some cases, we have received additional tax assessments. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We may underestimate the outcome of such examinations which, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war, ongoing disturbances in the Middle East, an attack on Israel, disruptions in our computing and communications 36 Table of Contents infrastructure due to power loss, telecommunications failure, human error, physical or electronic security breaches and computer viruses (which could leave us vulnerable to the loss of our intellectual property or the confidential information of our customers, disruption of our business activities and potential litigation), and other events beyond our control. We have a business continuity program that is based on enterprise risk assessment which addresses the impact of natural, technological, man-made and geopolitical disasters on our critical business functions. This plan helps facilitate the continuation of critical business activities in the event of a disaster but may not prove to be sufficient. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the case of our managed services business, any circuit failure or downtime could affect a significant portion of our customers. Since our ability to attract and retain customers depends on our ability to provide customers with highly reliable service, even minor interruptions could harm our reputation or cause us to miss contractual obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our business. Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables and managing our inventories. Over the past few years, we have made significant investments in EMEA and Asia to expand our business in these regions. In EMEA and Asia, as with other international regions, credit terms are typically longer than in the United States. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions have grown as a percentage of our revenues, accounts receivable balances have increased as compared to previous years, and we expect this trend to continue. As a result, we have seen our days sales outstanding increase. For example, our days sales outstanding in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 49 days as compared to 41 days in the fourth quarter of 2010. Although from time to time we have been able to largely offset the effects of these influences through additional incentives offered to channel partners at the end of each quarter in the form of prepay discounts, these additional incentives have lowered our profitability. In addition, economic uncertainty or a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries could restrict the availability of capital, which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy. Either a delay in collections or bankruptcy would harm our cash flow and days sales outstanding performance. In addition, as we manage our business and focus on shorter shipment lead times for certain of our products and implement freight cost reduction programs, our inventory levels may increase, resulting in decreased inventory turns that could negatively impact our cash flow. We believe inventory turns will continue to fluctuate depending upon our ability to reduce lead times, as well as due to changes in anticipated product demand and product mix and a greater mix of ocean freight versus air freight to reduce freight costs. Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations and may be extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock has from time to time experienced significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: • statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business, including competitors, partners, suppliers or telecommunications industry leaders or relating to us specifically; • the announcement of new products, product enhancements or acquisitions by us or by our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • failure of our future operating results to meet expectations of stock market analysts or investors or any financial guidance we may provide to the market, which is inherently subject to greater risk and uncertainty as expectations increase; 37 Table of Contents • general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; and • domestic and international macroeconomic factors. In addition, the stock market has in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations related to general economic, political and market conditions. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies like us and are often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. As with the stock of many other public companies, the market price of our common stock continues to be volatile. This excessive volatility in our stock price is unpredictable and may continue for an indefinite period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 