ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS While the following are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or that may adversely affect our business. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are not currently believed to be important to you also may adversely affect our company. Risks Relating to Our Industry and Business We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger due to challenges associated with integrating the companies and other factors. The success of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger will depend in part on the success of our management in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of First Avenue and Old FiberTower. Our inability to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of these companies or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger could seriously harm our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate these operations in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger, including potential synergies or sales or growth opportunities, to the extent or in the time frame anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger are based on assumptions and current expectations, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition to the potential integration challenges discussed above, our ability to realize the benefits and synergies of the business combination could be adversely impacted to the extent that our historical relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or strategic partners are adversely affected as a consequence of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger, or by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. Charges to earnings resulting from the impairment of goodwill related to the First Avenue/FiberTower merger may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we have accounted for the First Avenue/FiberTower merger as a reverse acquisition of First Avenue using the purchase method of accounting, which may result in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, we have allocated the total purchase price to First Avenue's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger, and have recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur amortization expense over the useful lives of amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the First Avenue/FiberTower merger. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or other intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. As a 16 result of the impairment evaluations of the fair value of the carrying amount of goodwill in the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $147.9 million during 2007. As a result of further declines in market equity value, the Company expects that an additional impairment test of goodwill will be required in the first quarter of 2008 which could lead to additional material impairment charges, including possibly, the entire remaining $86.1 million balance of goodwill at December 31, 2007. Our stock price could decline as a result of such a charge to earnings. See Note 6, Impairment of Goodwill, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, there is a significant risk that we will not be able to deduct the interest on the Notes. We will be limited in our ability to use some or all of the First Avenue's and Old FiberTower's net operating losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may increase our tax liability in future years. There is a significant risk that the interest on the Notes will not be deductible for U.S federal income tax purposes In addition, changes in the ownership of First Avenue as a result of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger caused there to be an annual limitation on FiberTowers' use of First Avenue's net operating loss carryforwards that arose prior to the First Avenue/FiberTower merger. Such limitation is imposed in addition to any annual limitations on the use of such net operational losses that resulted from prior ownership changes. Similarly, changes in the ownership of Old FiberTower as a result of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger caused there to be an annual limitation on the use of Old FiberTowers' net operating loss carryforwards that arose prior to the First Avenue/FiberTower merger. Such limitation also are imposed in addition to any annual limitations that arose from prior ownership changes of Old FiberTower. Since we do not currently generate taxable income and therefore cannot currently make use of any of our net operating losses, we have not yet performed the analysis to determine whether such changes of control have occurred, but we believe it is like that they have. Furthermore, we may experience future ownership changes that may limit our use of net operating losses. Limitations on the use of First Avenue's and Old FiberTower's net operating losses may increase our U.S. federal income tax liability in future years and will cause some of these net operating losses to expire unused. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Income Taxes" and Note 11, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We expect to incur negative cash flows and operating losses for at least the next few years. The Company has generated operating and net losses since our inception, and we expect that we will continue to generate significant operating and net losses and negative cash flows for the next few years. We may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to: •attract and retain an adequate customer base; •react to changes, including technological changes, in the markets we target; •deploy our services in additional markets; •respond to competitive developments; •attract and retain experienced and talented personnel as needed; and •establish strategic and maintain existing business relationships. Accordingly, our historical revenue may not be indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our communications services decrease, and if we are unable to offer 17 additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial results will suffer. To service our indebtedness we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our business does not currently generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service the interest on the $402.5 million of Convertible Senior Secured Notes ("Notes") that were sold on November 9, 2006. As a result, we deposited into an escrow account $68.5 million of the net proceeds from the Notes offering, which together with the proceeds from the investment thereof, will be sufficient to make the first four semi-annual interest payments on the Notes, the first two of which were made in May and November of 2007. Thereafter, we have the option to pay interest on the next four interest payment dates in additional notes. Our ability to pay our expenses and make payments due on the Notes therefore depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, legislative and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, which could result in our being unable to pay interest or repay indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to sell assets or incur additional debt, or we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Notes, at or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially adversely affect the value of the Notes and our ability to pay interest and the amounts due under the Notes. We may be unable to successfully execute any of our identified business opportunities or other business opportunities that we determine to pursue. We currently have a limited corporate infrastructure. In order to pursue business opportunities, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure and operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by one or more of the following factors: •the ability of our equipment, our equipment suppliers or our service providers to perform as we expect; •the ability of our services to achieve market acceptance; •our ability to execute our business strategy, which could be affected by our limited experience in providing high-speed transmission services; •our ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; •our ability to negotiate acceptable agreements to secure suitable locations for our radios and antennas; •our ability to manage the expansion of our operations, which could result in increased costs, high employee turnover or damage to customer relationships; •our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which may be affected by the significant competition in our industry for persons experienced in network operations and engineering; •equipment failure or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our customers; 18 •our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving demands of the markets we serve; and •our ability to raise substantial additional capital to fund our growth. Our failure to adequately address one or more of the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan with respect to mobile backhaul and fiber network extensions and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. We may require significant funds in the future, which may not be available to us to operate and expand our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and certificates of deposit of $228.3 million. However, our business is capital intensive, and we may require additional funds to fund capital expenditures and pay operating expenses at some point in the future. We may be unable to secure additional financing when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all, for these purposes. Any such financing could be subject to onerous terms and could be very dilutive to our stockholders. If we are unable to secure capital when needed, our business plans could be adversely affected and our results of operations could suffer. We invested significant resources into developing sites that may not necessarily generate significant revenues in the future. Prior to 2005, Old FiberTower constructed networks where each site had committed customer orders prior to any network design or deployment activities. Beginning in late 2005, in order to shorten the time a customer was required to wait between commitment and initial service delivery, Old FiberTower implemented a strategy to deploy networks where not all sites had committed customer orders at the start of deployment. Accordingly, we have an inventory of sites where T-1s are available for sale following completion of a deployment project, including some sites where no T-1s have yet been sold. As of December 31, 2007, we had 2,813 deployed sites, with 2,148 sites then being used to deliver services to customers and generating revenues. We incur significant costs in constructing and developing a site, and if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from the site in the future, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Beginning with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended on December 31, 2006, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required us to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contained an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal control is effective. Also included in this Report was an opinion by our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on management's assessment of such internal control. Both management and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm concluded that FiberTower Corporation did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. As discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, during the year ended December 31, 2007, our management implemented changes to our processes to improve our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of our process improvement, our management re-designed controls associated with property and equipment. Our management believes these control re-designs improved our internal control over property and equipment, but did determine that there was an insufficient period of time to demonstrate the operating effectiveness of the new controls and therefore 19 a material weakness in the internal controls for property and equipment existed as of December 31, 2007. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs and take up a significant amount of management's time and operational resources. The fact that we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over property and equipment during the year ended December 31, 2007, or our inability to assert in future years that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, could cause our stock price to decline and could have an adverse effect on our business. We are a relatively new entrant into a highly concentrated market with few potential customers. There are only a limited number of national mobile wireless carriers in any given regional market and typically fewer than four to seven mobile wireless carriers in any given market who are potential customers for mobile wireless carrier backhaul services. Our business strategy will depend on maintaining and growing customer relationships with a small number of national mobile wireless carriers and additional wireless carriers in each market. The competitors in this market, including large telephone companies, enjoy long-standing and established relationships with all of the mobile wireless carriers. If we are unable to secure and maintain a minimum number of ongoing and growing relationships with carrier customers in each market, our results of operations will be adversely affected. A single customer accounted for 57% of our revenues in 2007. AT&T Mobility (formerly Cingular Wireless) has been our largest customer and accounted for more than 80% of our revenues from 2003-2005. In 2006, AT&T Mobility accounted for 70% of our revenues and in 2007, for 57% of our revenues. If we were to lose AT&T Mobility as a customer, or if AT&T Mobility reduced their usage of our services or became financially unable to pay our charges, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. In addition, if AT&T Mobility were to encounter financial difficulties, our business could be adversely affected. In the third quarter of 2007, we signed a commitment with Sprint Nextel for the provision of backhaul services for their WiMax / 4G network. In the fourth quarter of 2007, T-1s were activated related to the Sprint Nextel WiMax / 4G network. We expect a material portion of T-1 growth in 2008 to come from this customer. If Sprint Nextel were to materially slow their network buildout or cancel the project, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our business strategy relies on the continued growth of the mobile wireless services industry and high-bandwidth broadband mobile applications in the U.S. The demand for backhaul services, and accordingly those we offer, depends on the continued growth of the mobile wireless services industry. The provision of mobile wireless services represents an evolving sector of the telecommunications industry, and is subject to a number of risks, including: •the continued development and use of high-bandwidth mobile applications; •historical perceptions regarding the burdens and unreliability of previous mobile wireless technologies; •high rates of consumer adoption of mobile applications; •increased levels of usage by subscribers; •increases in the number of overall subscribers; and 20 •the continued development and market acceptance of mobile devices enabled for mobile applications. If the mobile wireless carrier industry demand for backhaul services does not continue to grow through new subscriber additions and the adoption of high-bandwidth 3G applications, or for any other reason, our operations and financial performance will be adversely affected. Our revenues depend on the sale of fixed-wireless backhaul circuits for mobile wireless carriers. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of fixed-wireless T-1 backhaul and related services to mobile wireless carriers. We expect that we will continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from these services in the future. Any competitor's substitute service with similar performance and coverage characteristics and a lower cost structure could create downward price pressure and adversely affect our sales efforts. In addition, competing technologies could be developed that make our services obsolete. Accordingly, any changes in demand for our services, whether due to pricing pressure, technological changes, or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The telecommunications market is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to attract customers and maintain and grow our sales performance. Many of our existing or emerging competitors are better established and have significantly greater resources than we do, which may make it difficult to attract and retain customers and grow revenues. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. Our competitors include or could include: •cable multiple system operators offering either T-1, DS-1 and higher bandwidth circuits or Ethernet-based backhaul services; •incumbent and competitive local exchange carriers who offer T-1, DS-1 and higher bandwidth services or Ethernet-based backhaul services; •mobile wireless carriers building propriety backhaul networks; •satellite providers providing high capacity backhaul services; •other fixed-wireless service providers using unlicensed or licensed spectrum, suitable for high-bandwidth transport services; •fiber services providers with metro area network and distribution facilities; and •electric utilities and other providers offering or planning to offer broadband access over power lines. Moreover, we expect other existing and prospective competitors to adopt technologies or business plans similar to ours, or to seek other means to develop a product competitive with our services. Many competitors are well-established and have larger and better developed networks and systems, longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors can often subsidize competing services with revenues from other sources, such as consumer services, content or advertising, and thus may offer their services at lower prices. These or other competitors may also reduce the prices of their services significantly or may offer backhaul connectivity with other services, which could make their services more attractive to customers. Given the intense competition, we may be unable to compete effectively with these and other technologies and service providers and, consequently, we may be unable 21 to attract customers and grow and maintain our sales, or we may experience difficulty in developing long-term opportunities. An economic or wireless telecommunications industry slowdown may materially and adversely affect our business. Slowdowns in the U.S. economy or in the telecommunications industry in the future may impact consumer demand for wireless services, thereby reducing demand for our backhaul services, or negatively impact the debt and equity markets, thereby reducing demand for our services by causing wireless carriers to delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies, including 3G and other wireless broadband services. Further, the threat of terrorist attacks and the political and economic uncertainties resulting there from and other unforeseen events may impose additional risks upon and adversely affect the wireless telecommunications industry and our business. Competitors or customers may acquire radio spectrum for the purpose of offering similar fixed wireless services, which could impact our growth and negatively affect our operating results. The FCC controls a substantial amount of radio spectrum that may be procured through auction, application, or other licensing mechanisms and used for provision of fixed wireless services. Fixed wireless radio spectrum could be acquired by companies through sale or lease for the purpose of competing with us. Additionally, companies that we might serve with our wireless operations may elect to acquire spectrum or use spectrum they already control and develop their own fixed wireless networks. Moreover, certain unlicensed technologies may be used to provide services that could be used to compete with our services. All of these could adversely affect our business. We depend on third parties to help deploy our infrastructure and equipment to deliver our services. We rely on third-party contractors to deploy the infrastructure and equipment needed to provide our services. None of these third parties are contractually obligated to continue providing these services to us for any specific period of time. There are inherent risks in relying on third parties to provide these services, including: •the third parties could determine not to continue providing these types of services in the future, which would require us to obtain the services from other third-party contractors, or require us to develop the capability to perform these services internally; •reduced control over delivery schedules and quality of work; or •defects in third-party work may not be discovered until after services have been provided, which could lead to outages, decreased performance levels and customer dissatisfaction. If these third-party contractors are unable to provide quality services to us at reasonable prices, or if these third-party providers cease providing these services, our business could be harmed. We may experience difficulties in constructing, upgrading and maintaining our network, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase carrier turnover and reduce revenues. We may experience quality deficiencies, cost overruns and delays on construction, maintenance and upgrade projects, including the portions of those projects not within our control. The construction of networks for backhaul services also requires the receipt of permits and approvals from numerous governmental bodies, including municipalities and zoning boards. Such bodies often limit the expansion of transmission towers and other necessary construction. Failure to receive approvals in a timely fashion can delay system rollouts and raise the cost of completing construction projects. In addition, we typically must obtain rights from land, building and tower owners to install our antennas and other 22 equipment to provide our services. We may not be able to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, the rights necessary to construct our network and expand our services. We also face challenges in managing and operating our network. These challenges include operating, maintaining and upgrading network and customer premises equipment to accommodate increased traffic or technological advances, and managing the sales, advertising, customer support, billing and collection functions of the business while providing reliable network service at expected speeds and levels of quality. The failure in any of these areas could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase subscriber turnover, increase costs, decrease our revenues and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation that could increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business plan. We and some of our communications services and installations are regulated by the FCC, state agencies, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities. Our failure to comply with these requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. These regulators regularly conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. For example, the FCC has a number of proceedings still pending to implement the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and these regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Congress could also enact new legislation that could restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, impose additional obligations on us, assist our competitors in competing against us or otherwise harm our business. If we do not retain, obtain or maintain rights to use licensed spectrum in one or more markets, we may be unable to operate in these markets, which could harm our business and our ability to execute our business strategy. Since we plan to provide services using licensed spectrum, we will be dependent on our ability to retain, acquire and maintain sufficient rights to use licensed spectrum by retaining our own licenses and acquiring additional microwave radio spectrum licenses, or long-term spectrum leases, in each of the markets in which we operate. Obtaining additional licensed spectrum, if required, can be a long and difficult process that can be costly and require a disproportionate amount of management resources. We may not be able to acquire, lease or maintain the spectrum necessary to execute our business strategy. The FCC may cancel or revoke our licenses for past or future violations of the FCC's rules, which could limit our operations and growth. As an FCC licensee, we are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. For example, the FCC imposes requirements on the construction and technical aspects of the operation of our licenses and wireless communication systems and on the nature of the services that we can provide within a particular frequency band. The FCC's regulations also require various regulatory filings and fees. The FCC may find that our filings made and fees paid are insufficient. The FCC also may find that the operation of our licenses or wireless communication systems violates the FCC's rules or policies. Findings of violations by the FCC may result in fines and/or sanctions. Moreover, under some circumstances, our licenses may be canceled or conditioned, and in extreme cases, our licenses may be revoked. In addition, the FCC could change our regulations of our operations and licenses, which could impact our business. The FCC also could change our regulation of our wireless customers that are using our backhaul services, thereby impacting our operations and growth. 23 Our FCC licenses may not be renewed upon expiration, which could limit the expansion of our business and our ability to serve our customers and could harm our operating results. Our spectrum licenses in the 24 GHz and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten-year terms with renewal dates ranging from 2007 to 2014. Renewal applications for our licenses that expired in 2007 remain pending at the FCC. For our 24 GHz and 39 GHz licenses to qualify for renewal, we must demonstrate that we have provided "substantial service" by the end of the term of each license. The FCC's substantial service renewal standard for both the 24 GHz and 39 GHz licenses is intended to provide licensees with flexibility in demonstrating usage of their licenses. The FCC's "safe harbor" test provides licensees with a degree of certainty as to how to comply with the substantial service requirement. For example, for 39 GHz licensees offering point-to-point service, the FCC has said that the construction of four links per channel per million persons in the license area will meet the substantial service test. For 24 GHz point-to-point/multipoint licensees the FCC has said that a showing of four links per million persons within a service area or service to an area that has very limited access to either wireless or wireline telecommunications services will meet the substantial service test. While the safe harbors are intended to provide guidance, they are not the only way for licensees to demonstrate substantial service. Licensees may show that they have met the substantial service test in other ways, such as providing niche services or offering services to underserved consumers; however, there is little precedent in this area at this time. Accordingly, we believe that the level of service that will be considered "substantial" by the FCC at renewal may vary depending upon our type of product offering. Further, the FCC may modify our perception of substantial service and, in the future, we may encounter more stringent substantial service requirements. License renewal is not guaranteed and the FCC holds significant discretion in making renewal decisions. The loss of some number of our licenses could limit the expansion of our business and harm our operating results. We are required to demonstrate substantial service at the time the licenses are renewed, and the substantial majority of our licenses will be up for renewal commencing in 2010. We do not currently meet the substantial service safe harbor guidance provided by the FCC for the substantial majority of our 24 and 39 GHz licenses, which expire in 2010 and beyond, but believe that our licenses will be renewed based on our significant network investment and expanding geographic coverage. However, since we are required to demonstrate substantial service at the time licenses are renewed and FCC precedent in the 24 GHz and 39 GHz bands remains thin and subject to FCC discretion, the FCC could choose to not renew licenses that do not meet the substantial service safe harbor. On October 6, 2006, we filed a request with the FCC seeking to have the terms and construction requirements of 214 "rectangular service area" 39 GHz band licenses extended. We asked the FCC to grant waivers to extend the licenses and waive the requirement that we demonstrate that we have provided substantial service at renewal until October 18, 2010, at which time other similar licenses we hold will be due for renewal. Our request is predicated upon the favorable changes in demand and technology since the earlier failures to commercialize the 39 GHz band, the efficiency of focusing on renewing our similarly situated wide-area licenses at the same time, and on the additional scale and scope available to us as a result of the First Avenue/FiberTower merger. On January 31, 2007, the FCC acted upon our request providing a blanket six-month extension until August 1, 2007 to complete construction for all the licenses with expiration dates between November 15, 2006 and June 9, 2007 (162 licenses). The remaining 52 licenses possessed expiration and build-out dates that occurred after August 1, 2007. We filed a Petition for Reconsideration or Clarification asking that the FCC consider further the original October 18, 2010 extension request. Three of the 214 licenses discussed in the original waiver request expired in 2006 and we met the safe harbor build out requirement for licenses, filed related renewal applications, and the FCC subsequently granted those renewals. The remaining 211 licenses expired in 2007. We filed renewal applications for all of them, and those applications, like the extension waiver, remain pending. The 211 licenses at issue represent approximately 15% of our total wide-area license holdings channel pops. 24 While renewal is not guaranteed and the FCC holds significant discretion in making renewal decisions, we submitted that in every case the license either: 1) met the safe harbor requirement; or 2) met the substantial service requirement. The value of our FCC licenses could decline, which could materially affect our ability to raise capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our stock and the collateral for the notes. The carrying value of our wide-area fixed wireless FCC spectrum licenses comprises a significant portion of our assets. A decline in the value of our FCC licenses could negatively impact our ability to raise capital both privately and in the public markets and could significantly reduce the value and the attractiveness of our stock to investors. The value of any or all of our FCC licenses could decrease as a result of many factors, including: •increases in the supply of spectrum that provides similar functionality; •new radio technology in unlicensed bands that provides the same capability as our network; •a decrease in the demand for services offered with any of our FCC licenses; •lower values placed on similar licenses in future FCC auctions; •regulatory limitations on the use, transfer or assignment of any of our FCC licenses; or •bankruptcy or liquidation of any comparable companies. Many of these factors depend on circumstances beyond our control. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Also, if the value declines, impairment charges might be necessary which would negatively impact operating results and might lead to a conclusion that the FCC spectrum assets are no longer indefinite lived intangible assets in which case they would then have to be amortized over their remaining useful lives which would negatively impact results of operations. Our reliance upon spectrum licensed by the FCC includes additional risks. Our use of FCC-licensed spectrum imposes additional risks on our business, including: •increases in spectrum acquisition costs; •adverse changes to regulations governing spectrum/licensee rights; •the risk that spectrum will not be commercially usable or free of harmful interference from licensed or unlicensed operators in our or adjacent bands; •with respect to spectrum in the U.S., contractual disputes with or the bankruptcy or other reorganization of the license holders, which could adversely affect control over the spectrum subject to such license; •the risk that competitors may over utilize point-to-point licensed spectrum and thus alter the FCC availability or allocation of such microwave radio spectrum in markets or geographic areas where we require it; •change in the FCC rules regarding the licensing of microwave radio spectrum; and •invalidation of any authorization to use all or a significant portion of the spectrum, resulting in, among other things, impairment charges related to assets recorded for such spectrum. 25 The FCC may determine that we are subject to common carrier regulation, which could increase our costs and result in a decline in our operations, revenues and profitability. We currently offer our services as a private carrier and do not consider our services to be telecommunications services subject to common carrier or telecommunications carrier obligations. The FCC has broad powers to require providers of communications facilities and services to operate as common carriers, and there is significant FCC and Federal court case law in regard to this issue. Based on this body of law, we do not believe that the FCC, if it examined the issue with respect to our services, would require us to begin operating as a common carrier. However, there can be no assurance of this. Should the FCC conclude that we are a common carrier, we would become subject to a number of additional regulatory obligations. The precise nature of those obligations will vary depending upon the particular services offered, but we could be required by the FCC to offer services according to published rates, terms and conditions deemed to be just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory. We could also be required to make certain additional reports to the FCC, pay additional regulatory fees, and adhere to other requirements imposed on common carriers. Adherence to these obligations could materially affect our costs of providing services and therefore have an adverse impact on our business operations, revenues, and profitability. If state regulatory bodies determine that our services are common carrier, intrastate services, then we may be subject to fines or sanctions for failure to obtain state regulatory authorizations. We also may be subject to regulation in those states which will increase our operating costs in those states. If one or more states determines that we are providing intrastate, common carrier service, we may be required to obtain regulatory authorizations in those states and/or be subject to fines or sanctions for failure to obtain regulatory authorizations in those states. As a result, we may be required to apply for and maintain Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity in those states. We also may be required to fulfill other state requirements, such as filing tariffs and reports and contributing to state universal service funds, among other things. Such additional regulation would increase our costs. We may be required to make certain FCC filings in the future and may be subject to fines and or sanctions for failure to file in the past. Prior to the merger with Old FiberTower, First Avenue had taken the position that it was not obligated to submit certain revenue reporting forms required by the FCC's rules to be filed by certain providers of telecommunications services. These forms are the basis of payments assessed by the FCC in support of universal service, numbering administration, telecommunications relay services for the deaf, and local number portability. There can be no assurance that the FCC will accept First Avenue's interpretation of its filing obligations in this respect. The FCC could determine that such revenue reporting filings should have been made and that FiberTower should be assessed a fine and/or be required to make any and all payments such filings might necessitate. While Old FiberTower filed such revenue reporting forms prior to the First Avenue/FiberTower merger, those revenues did not meet the FCC's threshold for Old FiberTower to make payments to the FCC's programs described above. There can be no assurance that the FCC would accept a decision by FiberTower to suspend such filings in the future. FCC Regulation of radio frequency emissions and radio frequency environments may increase our costs and/or limit our operations. The FCC regulates the health and safety effects of radio frequency emissions for us and other wireless communications providers. Any FCC licensee whose emissions in an area exceed five percent (5%) of the total permissible emissions limit is responsible for ensuring that the site meets applicable health and safety requirements. The fixed wireless equipment we use is designed to operate at RF emission levels well below the FCC's standard. However, if we operate in an area where other higher 26 RF emitters are operating, we could nonetheless be required to cooperate with, and contribute financially to, efforts intended to bring the site within applicable health and safety limits. FCC or Congressional action that requires Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs) to artificially lower and cap their special access transport pricing could result in pricing pressure on FiberTower. The FCC and Congress possess the ability to require ILECs to artificially lower and cap their special access transport pricing. If the ILECs were required to significantly drop their backhaul pricing in our markets, our customers might then find our pricing unattractive. FCC approval for conversion of the Notes, if required, may not be forthcoming or may result in adverse conditions to our business or to the holders of the Notes. If the conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock would cause a change in control of FiberTower under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended and the FCC's rules, regulations or policies promulgated thereunder, the prior approval of the FCC would be required prior to any such conversion. There can be no assurance that, at the time the conversion is contemplated, the FCC would grant such an approval, or that the FCC would grant such an approval without adverse conditions. Interruption or failure of information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to provide services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We have experienced service interruptions in some markets in the past and may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any unscheduled service interruption will adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the expected results. We will also depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of these systems could result in interruptions in service. Interruptions in service could reduce revenues and harm operating results, and our brand could be damaged if people believe the network is unreliable. These systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, riots, acts of war, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Some systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at any network center could result in lengthy interruptions in service and adversely affect operating results. The industries in which we operate are continually evolving. Our services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The mobile wireless services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. The backhaul infrastructure that supports this dynamic industry must be similarly flexible and able to adapt to these changes. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with this reliance on technological development, such as: •competition from service providers using other means to deliver similar or alternative services; •competition from new service providers using more efficient, less expensive technologies, including products or services not yet invented or developed; 27 •gaining and sustaining market acceptance of the technology underlying our services; •realizing economies of scale; •responding successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner; •migration toward standards-based technology, requiring substantial capital expenditures; and •existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies that may render fixed wireless backhaul and other services less profitable or obsolete. As the services offered by us and our competitors develop, wireless carriers may not accept our services as a commercially viable alternative to other means of delivering wireless backhaul and other services. Accordingly, our inability to keep pace with technological development could materially and adversely affect our business. If our data security measures are breached, our reputation and business may be harmed. We rely on the security of our networks to deliver our services to customers. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate preventive measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. Consequently, unauthorized parties may overcome these security systems and obtain access to data on the network. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our networks including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. In addition, because we operate and control the network and the customers' network connectivity, unauthorized access or sabotage of our network could result in damage to our network and to the computers or other devices used by customers or carriers. An actual or perceived breach of network security, regardless of whether the breach is our fault, could harm public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, expose us to significant liability and adversely affect our business prospects. We rely on single equipment vendors for certain network components. If these components fail to perform, or if the relevant vendor fails to maintain timely supply, we may have a shortage of components and may be required to suspend or delay network deployment and service introductions. We depend on certain single source suppliers that supply components used in our network to deliver our services. If we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production or delivery of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In certain markets, our network facilities include single points of failure that, in the case of a failure, could cause wide scale market service disruption. In some of our markets, some of our network facilities do not have redundant components. Accordingly, if one of these components were to fail for any reason, our network may not be able to achieve satisfactory performance levels and may even suffer outages. Any service disruptions may have an immediate and significant impact on our ability to attract, retain, and grow customer revenues, which would harm our business and operating results. 28 We depend on the continued availability of leases or licenses for our communications facilities. We lease communications facilities from the owners of towers, rooftops, water towers, utility poles and other structures. We typically seek five year initial terms for our leases with three five year renewal options. The renewal options are generally at our option with a window of 90 to 180 days before the expiration of each term in which to terminate the agreement. If these leases are terminated or if the owners of these structures are unwilling to continue to enter into leases or licenses with us in the future, we would have to seek alternative arrangements with other providers. If we are unable to continue to obtain or renew leases on satisfactory terms, our business would be harmed. We do business with affiliated third parties and may not have obtained the most advantageous terms possible. We lease communications facilities from two of our significant stockholders, American Tower, which received approximately 4% of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the First Avenue/FiberTower merger, and Crown Castle, which owns approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. We may not have obtained the same lease terms with these stockholders as we might have obtained from unaffiliated providers. Our limited exclusivity agreements with American Tower and Crown Castle could terminate if we fail to meet certain performance obligations under those agreements. We have limited exclusivity agreements with American Tower and Crown Castle under which they have each agreed not to compete directly with us as a provider of backhaul services and not to invest in other entities in 20 designated markets. If we are unable to meet certain minimum backhaul service level obligations required under these agreements, these exclusivity provisions will terminate. In addition, these agreements terminate in January 2009 or on certain change-in-control transactions affecting American Tower or Crown Castle. Any such termination of these exclusivity agreements could adversely affect our business. A portion of our communications facilities or some subset of our equipment may not have been installed with valid lease agreements and/or proper permits. In some cases, some of our communications facilities or some of our equipment may not have been installed with valid lease agreements and/or proper permits in place. If a facilities owner were to challenge our ability to operate on that site, the resolution of the matter may require the termination of service to the customer, or an increase in operating costs associated with the locations, which could adversely affect operating results. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm us. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business because these individuals are important to our continued growth. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals. Competition for personnel throughout our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we are not successful in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience, performance and continued services of our senior management and other key personnel. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on our senior management to provide significant continuity in the execution of our growth plans. The loss of any members of our management team could harm our business. In January 2008, our President and Chief Executive Officer resigned and in August 2007 our Senior Vice President of Sales & Sales Operations resigned. 29 We have little experience with customer renewal rates and it is difficult to predict the extent of customer renewals for our services. We sell our services pursuant to service agreements that are generally for up to five years in length. Customers have no obligation to renew after the expiration of their initial subscription period and no assurance can be given that customers will renew at the same or higher levels of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of these customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, and we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the services, the prices of the services, the prices of the services offered by competitors or mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base. If customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on less favorable terms, revenues may decline and our business will suffer. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of the Notes and our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of the notes and our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: •our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; •the addition or loss of significant customers; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; •failure of our key suppliers, including equipment and fiber service providers; •the timing and success of new product and service introductions by the combined company or competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or those of competitors; •changes in consumer demand for mobile services; •service outages or security breaches; •the extent to which any of our significant customers do not renew their service agreements; •limitations of the capacity of our network and systems; •the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; •general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to the telecommunications industry; and •geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. We believe that, as a result of the above listed factors, our quarterly revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on historical results as an indication of future performance. 30 We have experienced growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations in recent periods. We increased our total number of full-time employees from 29 on December 31, 2003 to 221 on December 31, 2007. In addition, during this same period, we made substantial investments in network infrastructure, growing from 121 sites deployed and billing to 2,813 sites deployed and 2,148 deployed and billing sites as of December 31, 2007. We will need to continue to expand our business, including the number of billing sites. We anticipate that this expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in infrastructure. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures, as Old FiberTower was not previously a public company. Our historic expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage growth successfully, our business will be harmed. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and distractions from our core business. We may evaluate potential strategic transactions in the future, including acquisitions. The process of acquiring and integrating a company, business or technology is risky, may require a disproportionate amount of management or financial resources and may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may require additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes and our other indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we have total indebtedness of $415.8 million, consisting of the Notes. The indenture governing the Notes will also allow us to enter into a senior secured credit facility and incur certain other additional indebtedness, including pari passu senior secured indebtedness in certain circumstances. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences and significant effects on our business, including the following: •it may make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the Notes and our other indebtedness and contractual and commercial commitments and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; •we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on the Notes and our other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; •our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes will be limited; •our flexibility in reacting to changes in our industry may be limited and we could be more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general; and •we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged. 31 Any of the above consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. Rights of holders of Notes in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to have, obtain and/or perfect liens on certain assets. Subject to certain exceptions, the liens securing the Notes will cover substantially all of our assets other than our FCC licenses and authorizations, whether now owned or acquired or arising in the future. Applicable law requires that certain property and rights acquired after the grant of a general security interest or lien can only be perfected at the time such property and rights are acquired and identified. There can be no assurance that the trustee or the collateral agent will monitor, or that we will inform the trustee or the collateral agent of, the future acquisition of property and rights that constitute collateral, and that the necessary action will be taken to properly perfect the lien on such after acquired collateral. The collateral agent for the Notes has no obligation to monitor the acquisition of additional property or rights that constitute collateral or the perfection of any security interests therein. Such failure may result in the loss of the lien thereon or of the priority of the lien securing the Notes. Any foreclosure on the collateral that would result in a change of control would require various prior regulatory approvals from the FCC, as well as foreclosures on the assets, which may not be obtained in a timely fashion, if at all. FiberTower Corporation, the issuer of the Notes, is a holding company, and therefore our ability to make any required payment on the Notes depends upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance funds. FiberTower Corporation, the issuer of the Notes, has no direct operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including our required obligations under the Notes. However, each of our subsidiaries is a legally distinct entity, and while our domestic subsidiaries will guarantee the Notes, such guarantees are subject to risks. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make distributions will be subject to, among other things, the terms of any debt instruments of our subsidiaries then in effect and applicable law. If distributions from our subsidiaries to us were eliminated, delayed, reduced or otherwise impaired, our ability to make payments on the Notes would be substantially impaired. The Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our operational flexibility. The Notes contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest. These covenants include restrictions on our ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions; •issue capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; •transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; •make certain investments or acquisitions; •grant liens on our assets; •incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; 32 •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and •merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to a default under the Notes. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the Notes and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the Notes and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock or the value of the Notes. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the Notes. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides that the Board of Directors can issue preferred stock at our discretion with respect to voting, conversion, distribution, and other rights given to stockholders, which may be used in a way to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the Board of Directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. In addition, the members of our Board of Directors are elected on a staggered or classified basis, which could prevent or deter takeovers or changes in control by increasing the time it takes for a hostile acquirer to replace board members. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits mergers and other business combination transactions involving 15% or greater stockholders of Delaware corporations unless certain board or stockholder approval requirements are satisfied. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our Board of Directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved written comments received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to our periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act of 1934. 33 