ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider (1) all of the information set forth in this 10-K report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis included in Exhibit 13, (2) information in our other filings with the SEC, including any future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and (3) the risks described below. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known or which we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations, and even the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which the pricing of our products is substantially dependent on market forces, and we may not be able to pass on all of our increased costs to our customers. We primarily sell to retailers and wholesalers. Continuing industry consolidation and other factors have increased the buying leverage of the major grocery retailers in all of our markets. Because most produce items must be brought to market promptly, producers and suppliers cannot wait for market dynamics (supply and demand) to change in order to maximize recovery. In addition, industry supply of any produce item at any given time may be subject, in part, to uncontrollable factors, such as weather conditions. Excess industry supply of any produce item may result in increased price competition. In North America, our customers generally seek annual or multi-year contracts with suppliers that can provide a wide range of fresh produce. Since 2008, our banana contracts in North America have typically been fixed-price and include fuel surcharges that are adjusted based on market indices. Our North American salads business also typically sells value-added salads and healthy snacks under fixed-price contracts that include similar surcharges. While fixed-price contracts provide more predictable selling prices and protect against short-term, market-driven price declines, we may not be able to pass on cost increases that are not fuel-related or take advantage of short-term, market-driven price increases. Bidding for contracts or arrangements with retailers, particularly large chain stores and other large customers, is highly competitive. The prices at which we bid particular contracts may not be sufficient to retain existing business, maintain current levels of profitability or to obtain new business. Where we do not have fixed price contracts, the selling price received for each type of produce depends on several factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. 11 Table of Contents In Europe and the Mediterranean, bananas and other produce are sold primarily on the basis of weekly price quotes, including customers with whom we have annual supply agreements, which fluctuate significantly due to supply conditions, seasonal trends, transportation costs, currency exchange rates, competitive dynamics and other factors. If demand or pricing is low, rather than buying fruit we have contracted from independent growers, in most cases we have the option of paying them a liquidation price and not taking delivery. We make these decisions and allocate fruit to each market based on our expectations of market conditions; however, due to the time required for transportation, market conditions may change before the fruit is sold. In addition to direct competition with other industry participants, a few major retailers have begun to purchase a portion of their fruit directly from independent growers, or to contract directly for transportation of tropical fruit products. While these activities are currently a small part of the market, a significantly increased commitment by retailers to manage their own supply chain could affect industry dynamics. We expect increases in commodity and raw product costs, including purchased fruit, fertilizer, paper, shipping costs and fuel; to the extent that we cannot pass them on to our customers, they could adversely affect our operating results. We expect significant year-over-year increases in fuel-related costs and purchased fruit prices in 2010. In 2009, approximately 70% of the bananas and all of the lettuce and other produce we sourced were purchased from independent growers. Increased costs for purchased fruit and vegetables have negatively impacted our operating results in the past, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. Many external factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including: market fluctuations; currency fluctuations; changes in governmental regulations, such as exit prices for bananas (which are set by the government in several banana exporting countries); agricultural programs; severe and prolonged weather conditions; natural disasters; labor relations; and other factors. If the price of the fresh produce that we purchase increases significantly, we may not able to effectively pass these costs along to our customers. Fertilizer and paper costs are significant for the production and packaging of bananas. Although most of our ocean shipping needs are provided under long-term charters with negotiated fixed rates, we pay market rates for ships under short-term charters. While short-term ship charter rates have been recently decreasing, as the global economy recovers, rates may increase in the future. The price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations is an important variable component of our transportation costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially in recent years. We offset the effect of these increases through fuel surcharges and mitigate the effect of fluctuating fuel prices by purchasing bunker fuel forward contracts that lock in fuel prices for up to 75% of our expected core shipping needs for up to three years. In addition, diesel fuel and other transportation costs are significant components of much of the produce that we purchase from growers and distributors. If the price of any of these items increases significantly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on those increases to our customers. The continuing global economic downturn is affecting consumers’ purchasing habits and customer financial stability, which may affect sales volume and profitability on some of our products and have other impacts that we cannot fully predict. In the current global economic downturn, consumers have become more careful in their purchases, which may affect sales and pricing of some of our products. In Europe, our bananas are sold as a premium brand at a premium price, and price-conscious consumers may shift to “value” or unbranded bananas, which may affect the volume and price at which we can sell Chiquita-branded bananas and the profitability of our European business. In the North American salads business, the category did not grow in 2009 and within the category there is continuing pressure from private label salads. Similar trends 12 Table of Contents have resulted in pressure on pricing and volume of some of our other value-added products, such as Just Fruit in a Bottle. There can be no assurance regarding whether and how consumer purchasing habits will change or the extent to which current trends will affect our business. The full impact and duration of the current global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to Chiquita that could result in a decrease in their business with us, breaches of obligations to us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be one or more commercial or financial partners that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressure in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors which could have competitive impacts within the industry. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Our results of operations have been significantly impacted in the past by a variety of weather-related events. For example, as a result of flooding which affected some of our owned farms in Costa Rica and Panama in December 2008, we incurred approximately $33 million of higher costs, including logistics costs, related to rehabilitating the farms and procuring replacement fruit from other sources. Although we maintain insurance to cover certain weather-related losses, insurance does not cover all weather-related events and, even when an event is covered, our retention or deductible may be significant. We attempt to pass on some of the incremental costs to customers through contract price increases or temporary price surcharges, but there can be no assurance regarding the extent to which we may be able to pass on uninsured costs in the future. To the extent that climate changes lead to more frequent or more severe adverse weather conditions or events, this could increase the impact on our operations and those of our competitors as described below. Bananas, lettuce and other produce can be affected by drought, temperature extremes, hurricanes, windstorms and floods; floods in particular may affect bananas, which are typically grown in tropical lowland areas. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of agricultural production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions caused by these factors can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost. These factors may result in lower sales volume and, in the case of farms we own or manage, increased costs due to expenditures for additional agricultural techniques or agrichemicals, the repair of infrastructure, and the replanting of damaged or destroyed crops. Incremental costs also may be incurred if we need to find alternate short-term supplies of bananas, lettuce or other produce from other growers. From time to time, we have experienced shipping interruptions, port damage and changes in shipping routes as a result of weather-related disruptions. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption, an extended interruption in our ability to ship and distribute our products could have a material adverse effect on us. Competitors and industry participants may be affected differently by weather-related events based on the location of their production and supply. Our geographic diversity in banana production and sourcing locations increases the risk that we could be exposed to weather or crop-related events that may affect our operations at any given time, but lessens the risk that any single event would have a material adverse effect on our operations. If adverse conditions are widespread in the industry, they may restrict supplies and lead to an increase in prices for produce needed to meet obligations to customers. Particularly in 13 Table of Contents North America, it would be difficult to recover these higher costs, since we generally have fixed-price contracts with customers in North America. Our international operations subject us to numerous risks, including the potential imposition of fines or other penalties, which could be substantial, in connection with certain ongoing matters. We have international operations in countries throughout the world, including in Central America, Europe, China, the Philippines and parts of Africa. These activities are subject to risks inherent in operating in those countries, including government regulation, currency restrictions and other restraints, burdensome taxes, risks of expropriation, threats to employees, political instability, terrorist activities, including extortion, and risks of U.S. and foreign governmental regulation and action in relation to these operations. Under certain circumstances, we (i) might need to curtail, cease or alter our activities in a particular region or country, (ii) might not be able to establish or expand operations in certain countries, and (iii) might be subject to fines or other penalties. Our ability to deal with these issues may be affected by U.S. or other applicable law. As discussed in greater detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Exhibit 13, in December 2009, we received a Statement of Objections (“SO”) from the European Commission (“EC”) in relation to certain past activities alleged to have occurred in southern Europe. In the SO, the EC also expressed a preliminary view questioning the granting of immunity or leniency with respect to the matters set forth in the SO. While we continue to believe that we should be entitled to immunity and, in accordance with customary procedures, intend to respond to the SO, both in writing and at a hearing to be held, we can give no assurance as to the position that the EC will ultimately take in this matter. If the EC proceeds with a decision in this case and takes the position in any such decision that we are not entitled to immunity, then the EC can seek to impose fines on us, which, if imposed, could be substantial. Under its existing fining guidelines, the EC has significant discretion in determining the amount of any fine, subject to a maximum amount equal to 10% of a company’s worldwide revenue attributable to all of its products for the fiscal year prior to the year in which the fine is imposed. As such, if the EC were to impose a fine, it is possible that the imposition of such a fine could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, depending on the size of any such fine. A decision regarding the matters referenced in the SO, however, will not be taken by the EC until the close of the administrative procedure. In addition, we are currently involved in legal proceedings and investigations, described in more detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Exhibit 13, and under “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings”, involving, among other things, (i) a $25 million financial sanction contained in a plea agreement between us and the U.S. Department of Justice relating to payments made by our former banana-producing subsidiary in Colombia to a paramilitary group in that country which had been designated under U.S. law as a foreign terrorist organization, (ii) additional litigation and investigations relating to the Colombian payments, and (iii) customs proceedings in Italy. In connection with the plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, we agreed that, during a five-year probationary period, we would not commit any federal, state or local crimes. Accordingly, the commission of any illegal acts in the future could also give rise to liabilities under the plea agreement. Regardless of the outcomes of these matters, we will incur legal and other fees to defend ourselves in all of these proceedings, which in aggregate may have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 14 Table of Contents As a result of the recent Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Operations – Banana Segment, included in Exhibit 13, we expect a reduction in our tariff costs to import bananas into the EU. However, the net benefit to us from these reductions will depend on competitive dynamics and pricing impacts in the market, and there can be no assurance that we will realize the full benefit expected. In addition, as described in the same section, there are pending negotiations of free trade area agreements (“FTAs”) between the EU and certain Latin American countries. There is no way of yet knowing what banana measures will finally be approved in these FTAs, when or whether the FTAs will be implemented and what, if any, impact they will have on our operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial results. Our international operations involve a variety of currencies, with our most significant exposure being to the euro. Both sales and local selling and transportation costs in our Core European markets are primarily in euros and other major European currencies; approximately 40% of our total sales were in Europe in each of 2009, 2008 and 2007. We also have significant operations in Latin America that result in costs in those local currencies; however, banana and other produce purchase contracts are typically in U.S. dollars. Because produce purchase contracts are typically in U.S. dollars, and produce in Europe and the Middle East typically is sold on the basis of weekly price quotes, local selling prices fluctuate partially as a result of currency exchange fluctuations. There can be no assurance that we can increase our local pricing to offset any unfavorable currency exchange fluctuations, such as the euro weakening against the U.S. dollar. We reduce currency exchange risk from sales originating in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by exchanging local currencies for dollars promptly upon receipt. We further reduce our currency exposure for these sales by purchasing hedging instruments to hedge the dollar value of our estimated net euro cash flow exposure up to 18 months into the future. However, these hedging activities cannot eliminate any long-term risk of currency exposure. Our operations and products are regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations and products are subject to inspections by environmental, food safety, health and customs authorities and to numerous governmental regulations, including those relating to the use and disposal of agrichemicals, the documentation of food shipments and the traceability of food products, all of which involve compliance costs. Changes in regulations or laws in the past have required, and in the future may require, operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. If violations occur, regulators can impose fines, penalties and other sanctions. In some circumstances, we may decide or be required to recall a product if we or regulators believe it poses a potential risk. Although we maintain insurance to cover certain recall losses, this insurance does not cover all events and, even when an event is covered, our retention or deductible may be significant. The costs of these modifications and improvements and of any fines, penalties and recalls could be substantial. We can be adversely affected by actions of regulators or if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, even if our products are not implicated. As a result, we may also elect or be required to incur additional costs aimed at increasing consumer confidence in the safety of our products. For example, industry concerns regarding the safety of fresh spinach in the United States adversely impacted our Salads and Healthy Snacks operations in late 2006 and throughout 2007, even though our products were not implicated in these issues. 15 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness and the financial covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy or to react to changes in our business, and we may be limited in our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. As of December 31, 2009, we had $729 million principal amount of debt outstanding. Even though we have reduced debt in the past four years and we have low debt repayment obligations before 2014, our level of indebtedness continues to be significant and limits our ability to borrow additional funds due to both limits under our financial covenants and the amount that others may be willing to lend us. We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures. This, in turn, may: (1) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; (2) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; (3) limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments or to introduce new products or services; and (4) place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. Most of our indebtedness is issued under debt agreements that require continuing compliance with financial maintenance and other covenants. Our ability to comply with these provisions will be affected by our operating results and cash flow, which in turn may be affected by events beyond our control. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments and we were unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or if we had a change of control, the holders of the affected debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt, as well as other debt with cross-default provisions, to be due and payable immediately. Certain leasing and other contractual arrangements also could be affected. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities or avoid the loss of affected leases and other contracts. Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business; establishment of new outsourcing relationships, and new company operations and offices, may involve risks as new organizations become familiar with their responsibilities. We rely on independent growers to produce a significant amount of our bananas and all of our lettuce and other produce. For ocean transportation of fresh produce from South and Central America, we rely on third party shippers, who are also responsible for maintaining the ships to avoid mechanical breakdowns and repairing any damage to them. We enter into short-term contracts with third parties to provide ground transportation, customs clearance, production of some of our value-added snacks and a variety of administrative services. For example, in 2009, we entered into arrangements for third parties to provide (1) payroll processing for all North American employees and (2) transaction processing, accounts payable, and other “back office” operations for all worldwide operations. Although our arrangements with third parties may lower operating costs, provide expertise that might not be available among company employees and free up capital resources for other purposes, they reduce our direct control over production, distribution and some administrative activities; in addition, they could increase the time and effort we spend on maintaining our financial controls. New service providers may require time to fully understand certain aspects of our business needs and service requirements. A similar risk exists in our new European headquarters in Switzerland, where substantially all of the employees are new and still becoming familiar with their job requirements. With some third party providers, we are also subject to the geopolitical uncertainties inherent in developing countries. There can be no assurance that our third party providers will continue to provide the level of services we require, will continue to perform their obligations in a timely manner and will partner creatively with 16 Table of Contents us in the future as our business and logistics needs evolve. The cost efficiencies we seek may not be realized, and inefficiencies or quality control issues could affect our relationships with customers or other suppliers of goods and services. If our ability to bring products to market or service customer accounts were adversely affected, our reputation and business could suffer. Labor issues can increase our costs or disrupt our operations; pressure to increase union representation could adversely affect our operations; and changes in immigration laws could impact the availability of produce purchased from third-party suppliers. Most of our employees working in Central America are covered by labor contracts. Contracts covering approximately 7,000 employees will expire during 2010 and/or are currently under negotiation. Under applicable laws, employees are required to continue working under the terms of the expired contract. Approximately two-thirds of our Fresh Express employees, all of whom work in the United States, are covered by labor contracts; none of these contracts expire prior to December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate our labor contracts on commercially reasonable terms as they expire or that we will be able to pass on increased costs to our customers. We are exposed to the risks of strikes or other labor-related actions in both our owned operations and those of independent growers or service providers supplying us. Labor stoppages and strikes may result in increased costs and, in the case of agricultural workers, decreased crop quality. When prolonged strikes or other labor actions occur in agricultural production, growing crops may be significantly damaged or rendered un-harvestable as a result of the disruption of irrigation, disease and pest control and other agricultural practices. In addition, our non-union workforce, particularly in our salads and healthy snacks business in the U.S., has been subject to union organization efforts from time to time, and we could be subject to future unionization efforts. While we respect freedom of association, increased unionization of our workforce could increase our operating costs and/or constrain our operating flexibility. We purchase lettuce and other salad ingredients from many third parties that grow these products in the United States. The personnel engaged for harvesting operations typically include significant numbers of immigrants who are authorized to work in the U.S. The availability and number of these workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in U.S. immigration laws. A scarcity of available personnel to harvest agricultural products in the U.S. could increase our costs for those products or could lead to product shortages. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims; claims or other events or rumors relating to the “Chiquita” or “Fresh Express” brands could significantly impact our business. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. While we believe we have implemented practices and procedures in our operations to promote high-quality and safe food products, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. In addition to bananas and value-added salads, our healthy snacking and bottled juice products and our fresh juice bars subject us to risks relating to food safety and product liability. Although we maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be adequate, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others or they might exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. In addition, large retail customers often require us to indemnify them for claims made by consumers who have purchased our products, regardless of whether the claim arises from our handling of the product. Consumers and institutions associate the “Chiquita” and “Fresh Express” trademarks and related brands with high-quality and safe food products, as well as responsible business practices, which are an 17 Table of Contents integral part of our business. We have licensed the Chiquita brand to several third parties over whom we have limited control, and acts or omissions by these third parties can reflect on our products and our business. Any events, rumors or negative publicity regarding the quality and safety of our food products or our business practices, even if baseless, may adversely affect the value of our brand names and the demand for our products. Future innovations, acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances may be costly, may not achieve their intended goals and may distract our management, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. Our ability to execute successfully through innovation, new products, acquisitions and geographic expansion will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, it may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business. The following risks, in particular, may be applicable: Risks relating to innovation: In the area of innovation, we must be able to develop new products and enhance existing products that appeal to consumers and customers. This depends, in part, on the technological and creative skills of our personnel and on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in both proprietary technology and our brands. We may not be successful in the development, introduction, marketing and sourcing of new products, or innovations to existing products, that satisfy customer needs, achieve market acceptance or generate satisfactory financial returns. Risks relating to acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances: We may not identify suitable acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or complete them on terms that are satisfactory to us. If completed, we may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired company’s personnel, assets, management systems and technology. The benefits expected from an acquisition may not materialize and could be adversely affected by numerous factors, such as regulatory developments, industry events, general economic conditions, increased competition and the loss of existing key personnel or customers. We may not have control over decisions made by a strategic alliance partner, and it could be difficult for us to exit or restructure an alliance if we desire to do so. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet; a substantial impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $750 million of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks on our balance sheet, the value of which depend on a variety of factors, including the success of our business, earnings growth and market conditions. Accounting standards require us to review goodwill and trademarks at least annually for impairment, and more frequently if impairment indicators are present. We recorded a $375 million ($374 million after-tax) impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 relating to goodwill at Fresh Express. Reviews in 2009 did not indicate impairment, but there can be no assurance that future reviews of our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets will not result in additional impairment charges. Although it does not affect cash flow or our compliance under the company’s current credit facility, an impairment charge does have the effect of decreasing our earnings and shareholders’ equity. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 