ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our past experience may not be indicative of future performance, and as noted elsewhere in this report, we have included forward-looking statements about our business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections “Description of Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list of the risks we face; some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that we currently perceive as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. Adequacy of Loan Loss Allowance. We have established a reserve for possible losses we expect in connection with loans in our credit portfolio. This allowance reflects our estimates of the collectibility of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. Our determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although we apply criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If our loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, it may require unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance is inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our revenues and financial condition. Growth Management. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage our branch expansion and potential future acquisitions. We expend significant resources to open new branches including construction of branch buildings or commitments on leased property and hiring of new employees to staff the branch as well as new administrative employees to support branch operations. Growth through acquisition of other banks is subject to other risks such as our inability to effectively integrate the other bank’s branches, customers and employees into our operational structure and company culture. Overall, expansion of our branch network and any potential future acquisitions may present operating and other problems that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have achieved in the past. Changes in Market Interest Rates. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest spread. Based on our current volume and mix of interest bearing liabilities and interest earning assets, net interest spread could be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise in a parallel shift along the yield curve and, conversely, to decline during times of similar falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although we believe the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity We are subject to the risk of daily volatility in our liquidity. Liquidity measures our ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Dramatic fluctuations in deposit balances make it difficult to manage liquidity. A sharp reduction in deposits could force us to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market. In addition, rapid loan growth during periods of little or no liquidity may force us to purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates and/or decline loans. Columbia Bancorp - 14 Table of Contents Geographic Concentration. Substantially all of our business is derived from a nine–county area in central, north-central and northeastern Oregon and south-central and south-eastern Washington. The communities we serve typically have population bases of 20,000 to 250,000, and have traditionally created employment opportunities in the areas of agricultural, timber, electrical power generation, light manufacturing, construction and transportation. During the recent past, many of these markets have experienced a resurgence of economic growth due to small business expansion, land development, technology related business and revitalization of the downtown retail and office spaces. Many of the markets we serve have quickly earned a reputation as desirable places for quality of life for families and entrepreneurs. While we have built our expansion strategy around these growing and diverse geographic markets, our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions we serve, may have a more pronounced effect upon our business than they might on an institution that is more broadly diverse in geographic concentration. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. Regulation. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, as well as our shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent, significant changes. Changes in laws and regulations may affect our cost of doing business, limit our permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or our competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions and change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to insure adequate compliance. Overall, the effect of laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees, and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. Credit Risk. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying its credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our future results of operations. Loans with variable interest rates comprise approximately 89% of our loan portfolio. As variable rate loan payments increase due to rising interest rates, our borrowers may have difficulty making payments as they come due. This increase in credit risk may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Columbia had no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 15- Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents 