Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below regarding the business and the ownership of our shares. If any of the risks are realized, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, and the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Potential liability claims As a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks, numerous lawsuits have been commenced against us and our U.S. subsidiary. The cases arise out of airport security services provided for United Flight 175 out of Logan Airport in Boston, Massachusetts, which crashed into the World Trade Center. Most of these cases have been settled at no cost to the Company. There are two cases remaining and the outcome of these cases is uncertain. If there is an adverse outcome with respect to any of 6 these claims which is not covered by insurance, then there may be a significant adverse impact on us. Losses in recent years We incurred losses from continuing operations of $5.3 million, $7.9 million and $4.8 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and have a shareholders’ deficit of $40.4 million and $36.7 million as of December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively. If we are unable to obtain new service contracts, increase revenues and achieve profitability, the viability of our Company will be in question, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected and our share price will likely decline. Auditors’ going concern opinion We have a working capital deficit and a history of recurring losses from continuing operations and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we have a working capital deficit of $5.2 million and $10.3 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred losses from continuing operations of $5.3 million, $7.9 million and $4.8 million, respectively, and negative cash flows from operations of $8.0 million, $7.9 million, $6.2 million, respectively. In their report, our independent registered public accounting firm, Mayer Hoffman McCann CPAs, stated that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate cash flows from our operations and obtain additional related party or third party financing. There can be no assurances that management's plans to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and obtain additional financing from related parties or third parties will be successful. Loans from an entity related to our principal stockholder Our financing activities have consisted primarily of convertible loans from an entity related to our principal shareholder. There is no assurance that our principal shareholder will continue making loans to the Company and even if loans are made, there is no assurance that the terms will be favorable to the Company. Key personnel Our success will largely depend on the services of our senior management and executive personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our success will also be dependent upon our ability to hire and retain additional qualified executive personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain personnel with the attributes necessary to execute our strategy. We cannot assure you that one or more of our executives will not leave our employment and either work for a competitor or otherwise compete with us. Our contracts with airports or airlines may be canceled or not renewed Our revenues are primarily provided from services pursuant to contracts, which are cancelable on short notice at any time, with or without cause. We cannot assure you that an existing client will decide not to terminate us or fail to renew a contract. In addition, consolidation in the airline industry could also result in a 7 loss of customers. Any such termination or failure to renew a contract with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. One of our material contracts with our biggest customer will expire in June 2015. The Company is making efforts to renew the contract. If our relationships with our major customers are impaired, then there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our major customers include major airlines servicing the United States and airports in Europe. The airline industry continues to encounter difficulties and this may have a material adverse impact on our business. Development of new technology As part of our technology business strategy, we develop technological solutions and systems for the financial and other industries and seek other revenue producing business and business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new systems or develop systems that are commercially viable. Our success in developing and marketing our systems will also depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technology changes in the industry and to integrate such changes into our systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to change or implement our business strategy. We may not have the expertise to be successful in developing our business in areas that are not related to the security industry. We compete in a highly competitive industry and our competitors may be more successful in developing new technology and achieving market acceptance of their products. In connection with the technology systems that we offer, the systems process and store large amounts of data, including sometimes personal information, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches, could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affecting our business, result in litigation or potential liability. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Competition Competition in the aviation security and other aviation services industry as well as in the technology industry is intense. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We expect that our competitors will develop and market alternative systems and technologies that may have greater functionality or be more cost effective than the services we provide or the systems that we may develop. If our competitors develop such systems we may not be able to successfully market our systems. Even if we are able to develop systems with greater functionality, which are more cost effective than those developed by our competitors, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of our systems. Governmental regulation The aviation security industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation, the impact of which is difficult to predict. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the "Security Act") has had a significant negative impact on our aviation security business in the USA. In addition, our ability to successfully market new systems will be dependent upon government regulations over which we have no control. Any existing or new regulation 8 may cause us to incur increased expenses or impose substantial liability upon us. The likelihood of such new legislation is difficult to predict. Health Care Reform Law The Affordable Care Act will materially impact our Company and in particular, our U.S. operations conducted by Huntleigh USA Corp. It significantly expands health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans among many other changes. The law requires companies to provide a minimum amount of health insurance coverage to their eligible employees by January 1, 2015. If the companies fail to do so, the companies will incur a penalty of $2 per eligible employee. There can be no assurance that Huntleigh will be able to provide the required minimum insurance and the financial impact to it, if it does not provide such minimum insurance coverage. Additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform are likely. We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they will be adapted, or what impact they may have on us. Legislation designed to protect privacy rights From time to time, personal identity databases and technologies utilizing such databases have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate the use of personal identity information technologies on the grounds that personal information and these technologies may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. In the event that such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for our products may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that the Company fails to detect terrorist activity as a result of legislation designed to protect privacy rights, the market for our products may be adversely affected. Licenses for operations A license to operate is required from the airport authority in the airports in which we currently operate. The loss of, or failure to obtain, a license to operate in one or more of such airports could result in the loss of, or the inability to compete for, contracts in the airports in which we have licenses. Poor Economic Conditions Current economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Deterioration in the global economic environment may result in decreased demand for our services and increased competition. Weakening economic conditions could also affect our customers, which may result in redirection of their request for our reviews. Currency risk A substantial portion of our revenue is generated in foreign countries. We generally retain our income in local currency at the location the funds are received. Since our financial statements are presented in United States dollars, any significant fluctuation in the currency exchange rate between such currency and the United States dollar would affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limitations in price share The market price of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by a large number of factors, including, among others, variations in our operating results, the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our shares, and differences between actual results of operations and the results anticipated by investors and securities analysts. Many of the factors which affect the market price 9 of our common stock are outside of our control and may not even be directly related to us. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell your shares when you want at prices you find attractive. Main shareholders As of December 31, 2013, there are four shareholders who individually hold more than 5% of the Company’s shares. All of them together hold approximately 87.4% of our shares (excluding conversion rights). Their interests could conflict with yours. In addition, significant sales of shares held by them could have a negative effect on our stock price. The Atzmon Family Trust, owns or controls approximately 60.3% of our issued and outstanding common stock (excluding conversion rights). As a result of such ownership and conversion rights, the Atzmon Family Trust is able to significantly influence and / or control all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Mr. Atzmon, the Chairman of the Board, disclaims any benefit or interest in the Atzmon Family Trust. Dividends We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Laws in the Netherlands As a Netherlands "Naamloze Vennootschap" (N.V.), public limited liability company, we are subject to certain requirements not generally applicable to corporations organized under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States. Among other things, the authority to issue shares is vested in the general meeting of shareholders, except to the extent such authority to issue shares has been delegated by the shareholders or by the Articles of Association to another corporate body for a period not exceeding five years. The issuance of the common shares is generally subject to shareholder pre-emptive rights, except to the extent that such pre-emptive rights have been excluded or limited by the general meeting of shareholders (subject to a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes if less than 50% of the outstanding share capital is present or represented) or by the corporate body designated to do so by the general meeting of shareholders or the Articles of Association. Such a designation may only take place if such corporate body has also been designated to issue shares. In this regard, the general meeting of shareholders has authorized our Supervisory Board to issue any authorized and unissued shares at any time up to five years from December 27, 2012, the date of such authorization, and has authorized the Supervisory Board to exclude or limit shareholder pre-emptive rights with respect to any issuance of common shares prior to such date. Such authorizations may be renewed by the general meeting of shareholders from time to time, for up to five years at a time. This authorization would also permit the issuance of shares in an acquisition, provided that shareholder approval is required in connection with a statutory merger (except that, in certain limited circumstances, the board of directors of a surviving company may resolve to legally merge the company). Shareholders do not have pre-emptive rights with respect to shares which are issued against payment other than in cash. On December 27, 2012, at the general meeting of shareholders it was approved to increase the authorized share capital to €15,000,000 or 33,333,334 shares. In 10 addition, it was approved at the shareholders’ meeting that in the event that at least ninety percent of the authorized share capital is issued, the authorized capital of the Company can be increased to €67,500,000 or 150,000,000 shares. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Netherlands. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, or their members, or controlling shareholders, than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Pursuant to mandatory Dutch corporate law, adoption of our annual accounts by the general meeting of shareholders does not automatically discharge the Supervisory Board and Management Board and their members from liability in respect of the exercise of their duties for the particular financial year. In order to discharge the Supervisory Board and Management Board and their members from liability a separate resolution thereto needs to be adopted by the general meeting of shareholders (which resolution can be adopted in the same meeting in which the annual accounts will be adopted). Such discharge of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board and their members by the shareholders is subject to the provisions of Dutch law, including provisions relating to liability of members of supervisory boards and management boards upon the bankruptcy of a company pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code and is furthermore not absolute and will not be effective as to matters misrepresented or not disclosed to the shareholders. An individual member of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board who can prove that he is not at fault for such an omission or misrepresentation would not be liable. U.S. judgments may not be enforceable in the Netherlands A significant number of our activities are located outside the United States. In addition, members of the Management and Supervisory Boards and certain experts named herein are residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against such persons judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. The party that wishes to enforce such judgment in the Netherlands will have to institute second proceedings before a competent court in the Netherlands in order to obtain a similar decision that is capable of enforcement. A court in the Netherlands will, under current practice, normally issue a judgment incorporating the judgment rendered by the United States court if it finds that (i) the United States court assumed jurisdiction on international recognized grounds, (ii) the judgment was obtained in compliance with principles of due process, (iii) the judgment is final and conclusive and (iv) recognition of the judgment does not contravene the public policy or public order of the Netherlands. We cannot assure you that United States investors will be able to enforce any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws against us or members of the Management or Supervisory Board (or certain experts named herein) who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States. In addition, a court in the Netherlands might not impose civil liability on us or on the members of the Management or Supervisory Boards in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands. 11 