ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be reviewed and considered. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions or results of operation. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our FCC licenses may be canceled or revoked for violations of the FCC’s rules, which could limit our operations and growth. The book value of our FCC radio licenses comprised approximately 93% of the book value of our assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents, certificates of deposit and goodwill, at December 31, 2005. As an FCC licensee and regulatee, we are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight, including regulations constraining ownership of us, rules governing the services we can provide and the prices we charge, as well as rules related to construction and operation of our services. In addition, we are subject to certain regulatory and other fees levied by the FCC for certain classes of licenses and services. Under certain circumstances, our licenses may be revoked, canceled or conditioned. Among other things, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC rules and regulations impose requirements on radio licensees and carriers that include regulations on the ownership, operation, acquisition and sale of the broadband operating radio systems that are needed to provide the services we offer. The FCC also regulates the leasing of spectrum, and requires licensees to notify the FCC of such leases, and in some cases, receive prior approval for such leases. In early 2004, we were contacted telephonically regarding eleven of our 39 GHz licenses with respect to which we had entered into certain leases prior to the effective date of the FCC’s Secondary Market Initiative without fully complying with the FCC’s procedures. In October 2005, the Company entered into a Consent Decree with the FCC whereby the Company agreed to make a voluntary contribution of $20,000 to the United States Treasury and to adopt and implement a plan to ensure future compliance with FCC-03-113. The Company further agreed to keep this compliance plan in effect for three years. In exchange, the FCC concluded its investigation. Our licenses may be revoked for violations of the FCC’s rules or we may be fined. The loss of some of our licenses could limit the expansion of our business. Even the initiation of a proceeding with the potential to result in the loss of our licenses could adversely affect our business. Our FCC licenses may not be renewed upon expiration which could limit the expansion of our business and harm our operating results. Our 39 GHz and 24 GHz licenses are granted for initial ten-year terms with renewal dates ranging from 2006 to 2014. Less than 1% of our licenses, representing less than 1% of our channel pops, are subject to renewal in 2006, 34.7% of our licenses, representing 17.7% of our channel pops, are subject to renewal in 2007 and less than 1% of our licenses, representing less than 1% of our channel pops, are subject to renewal in 2008. Under current FCC guidance, we must demonstrate that we have provided “substantial service” at the time of renewal for our licenses to be renewed. Additionally, the FCC has not issued any specific renewal criteria or official definition of “substantial service,” but has only issued “safe-harbor” guidelines, where it has indicated the licensee in the 39 GHz band should have constructed four individual point-to-point radio transmission links per channel per million persons in the license area and that the 24 GHz licensees should have constructed four point-to-point/multipoint links per million persons in the license area. While all of our current service offerings are on a point-to-point basis, we do not currently meet the “safe-harbor” guidance provided by the FCC because we have not constructed four individual point-to-point links per channel per million persons in a license area. Under FCC rules, licenses are renewed based upon service provided as of the renewal date. Thus, the FCC only evaluates whether “substantial service” is provided as of the renewal date. We may not be able to meet the “safe-harbor” substantial service requirement as of expiration date of our licenses. Even if we were to meet the “safe harbor” guidelines today, we may not be able to meet them as of the renewal date. We cannot be certain that we can demonstrate substantial service based on other factors the FCC would consider, such as providing a niche service. Further, the FCC may modify its perception of substantial service , and, in the 13 future, we may offer products for which the FCC establishes more stringent substantial service requirements. If we cannot meet the substantial service test at renewal, the rules provide that the licenses for which we sought renewal will be canceled. The loss of some of our licenses could limit the expansion of our business and harm our operating results. We are subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation that could increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Congress could enact new legislation that could impose additional obligations on us or assist our competitors in competing against us. Moreover, we and some of our communications services and installations are regulated by the FCC, the states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities. These regulators regularly conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. For example, the FCC has a number of proceedings still pending to implement the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and these regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Coordination with other licensees in the 39 GHz band could limit our operations in that band. Licenses in the 39 GHz band are subject to an arrangement between the FCC and the Department of Industry of Canada regarding sharing between broadband wireless systems along the U.S.-Canada border. The 39 GHz band is also subject to satellite power flux density limits which can limit our ability to provide service in some areas. Moreover, proceedings are pending at the FCC wherein satellite operators have requested access to the 39 GHz band. To date, the FCC has declined to grant these requests. If permitted, however, such satellite operations could create interference with our 39 GHz radio operations and/or limit our operations in certain geographic areas. The FCC may determine that we are offering common carrier service and, therefore, regulate us as common carriers which could increase the cost of our operations. We currently offer our fixed wireless services to particular customers with specific needs on an individual contract basis. We do not hold ourselves out to the public for the provision of our services. As such, we believe we operate as a private carrier and are not subject to the FCC’s common carrier regulations. Nonetheless, the FCC could determine that we are operating as a common carrier, and as a result, are subject to its common carrier rules and regulations which would likely increase our costs of providing service and could have an adverse impact on our business operations, revenues, and profitability. A key aspect of our business strategy is to provide backhaul services for providers of mobile wireless telecommunications, and our business will depend to a substantial degree on the widespread adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications, such as 3G applications. Any delay in the implementation of these applications could limit our ability to grow our business and generate additional revenue One of our primary business strategies is to provide mobile wireless telecommunications companies with backhaul services, which is the movement of telecommunications traffic between cell sites and the carrier’s wireline switching station. Demand for backhaul services will depend to a large extent on the widespread acceptance and use of 3G technologies, such as high speed data service, video phone capability, telephone photography, streaming video, downloadable music and video games. The implementation of 3G technologies may require mobile companies to upgrade equipment and make significant capital expenditures which may de delayed by a number of factors outside our control. Any delay in implementation could result in slower growth in the demand for backhaul services and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and expand our business. The value of our licenses could decline. The book value of our wireless licenses comprises approximately 27% of our total assets and 93% of our assets, excluding cash, cash equivalents, certificates of deposit and goodwill. The value of any or all of our licenses could decrease as a result of: • increases in supply of spectrum that provides similar functionality, such as the FCC proposal to allocate and license additional 37-40 GHz spectrum; • a decrease in the demand for services offered with these licenses; • values placed on similar licenses in future FCC auctions; • greater acceptance of unlicensed spectrum, such as WiMax, for carrier class applications; • regulatory limitations on transfers of these licenses; and 14 • bankruptcy or liquidation of any other comparable companies. Many of the foregoing factors are out of our control. One or more of the foregoing results could adversely affect the market for licenses like ours. Moreover, should one or more of the foregoing occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our ability to implement our business plan, generate revenue, and/or operate our business. The volatility in the value of our FCC licenses could cause volatility in the trading price of our stock. At December 31, 2005 our licenses have a carrying value of $60.7 million. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we performed a valuation of our spectrum and determined that the fair market value of the spectrum was $128.9 million. In performing this evaluation, we identified a number of factors that are considered to be indicative of the value of FCC licenses, including (i) our public equity value; (ii) private purchases of similar licenses; (iii) the change in the public equity value of companies providing similar services or holding similar FCC licenses; and (iv) the announced sale of XO’s wireline division. Each of the factors was then quantified and weighted in deriving the estimated fair value. Declines in the fair market value of our licenses could result from external market conditions in the wireless communications industry as well as the telecommunications industry as a whole. Additionally, declines could occur as a result of lack of acceptance of the types of services that we offer or the development of more cost effective alternatives for delivering such services. If a decline occurred such that the fair market value of our licenses was less than the carrying value, we would record an impairment charge for the difference. At December 31, 2005, our licenses represented 27% of our total assets. Declines in our license value and the resulting impairment charge to earnings could have an adverse effect on our future financial results and could result in a decline in our stock price. Future asset impairments or other charges could have an adverse impact on our future financial results and the trading price of our stock. Under SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” we are required to assess the impairment of our long lived assets, including goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. The factors that management considers in determining whether to conduct an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to minimum future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets, significant technological or industry changes or changes in the strategy of the overall business. When we determine that the carrying value of the long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above impairment indicators, we then measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, any impairment change will be recorded as an operating loss. At December 31, 2005 the $90.7 million carrying value of goodwill represents 40% of our total assets. Any operating losses resulting from an impairment charge on this long-lived asset would have an adverse effect on our future financial results and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our services and products incorporate intellectual property rights that may be found to infringe on the rights of others. Many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industry-wide standards, which are usable by all market participants. As the number of market entrants as well as the complexity of the technology increases, the possibility of functional overlap and inadvertent infringement of intellectual property rights also increases. Third parties may have patents on technology or processes similar to those that we use. As a result, in the future, third parties may assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Defending such claims may be expensive, time consuming and divert the efforts of our management and/or technical personnel. As a result of litigation, we could be required to pay damages and other compensation, develop non-infringing products/technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We may be unable to secure any needed additional capital to operate our business. We had cash and certificates of deposit of $70.7 million at December 31, 2005. We may not be able to secure traditional financing if required to take advantage of future business opportunities. We may be unable to secure additional financing when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all, to pursue such opportunities. Any such financing could be on onerous terms and could be very dilutive to our stockholders. If we are unable to secure capital when needed, we may be unable to maintain our licenses or continue any level of operations. 15 We expect to incur negative cash flows and operating losses during at least the next few years. We have generated only nominal revenues from operations to date. We have generated operating and net losses since our inception and we expect to generate operating and net losses and negative cash flows for at least the next few years. We may not develop a successful business or achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to: • raise adequate additional capital if required; • attract and retain an adequate customer base; • deploy and commercialize our services; • attract and retain experienced and talented personnel as needed; and, • establish strategic business relationships. We may not be able to do any of these successfully, and our failure to do so is likely to have a negative impact on our operating results. Competition may increase which could impact our growth and negatively affect our operating results. The FCC still controls a substantial amount of spectrum at and around 39 GHz. The FCC has proposed to allocate and auction this spectrum in the future, increasing the number of entities that hold this spectrum and the general availability of spectrum at and around 39 GHz. In future auctions, companies that would otherwise lease spectrum from us could instead decide to buy spectrum. Spectrum could be acquired by companies for the purpose of competing with us. Additionally, companies that we might serve with our wireless operations may elect to acquire spectrum and develop their own fixed wireless networks. All of these could adversely affect our business. The FCC still controls a substantial amount of spectrum at 24 GHz. In July 2004, the FCC auctioned five 80 MHz licenses of 24 GHz spectrum territory in 176 Economic Areas (EA) covering the entire United States. The purchaser’s use of the spectrum was subject to Teligent’s 24 GHz spectrum holdings. Since Teligent held the most populous areas in many of the EAs, the purchaser would be barred from operating in the metropolitan sections with arguably the most business potential. As a result, only seven licenses covering 12.8 million pops were purchased, each for the minimum bid required by the FCC. The FCC could decide to hold another auction for the available 24 GHz spectrum. We may be unsuccessful in developing a business around our targeted mobile backhaul and fiber extension strategies. Also, we may be unable to successfully discover and respond to future business opportunities to utilize our 24 GHz and 39 GHz licenses. Our long-term strategy requires that we effectively implement our current business strategies and identify additional uses for our 24 GHz and 39 GHz licenses. We may be unsuccessful in developing our planned or other businesses due to one or more of the following factors: • the availability, performance and price of viable alternatives; • our inability to create awareness and acceptance of our services; and, • our limited resources to develop or pursue possible opportunities for the provision of services. In addition, we anticipate having limited resources available to develop future business opportunities and, as a result, we may not be able to respond in a timely manner if a longer-term opportunity does arise. Additionally, we have many competitors who may be better prepared to respond quickly to increasing demand for the services we provide, which could affect our ability to capitalize on such opportunities. We may not be able to obtain access to building rooftops, transmission towers, and other facilities in order to provide our wireless services. The provision of our wireless services may require that we have access to building rooftops, transmission towers, and other facilities owned by third-parties, some of whom may be our competitors in the marketplace. We may be unable to enter into arrangements with third parties, or on favorable terms and conditions, to gain access to certain facilities where our equipment must be located due to the line-of-sight requirements of our transmission equipment. As such, our operations may be limited in areas where we have difficulty obtaining such access, or the cost of our operations may increase as a result of paying higher fees for access rights to third parties. 16 We may be unable to successfully execute on any of our identified business opportunities or other business opportunities that we determine to pursue. We currently have 29 employees (including officers) and maintain limited corporate infrastructure. Our internal systems are not robust and we operate a limited service and support organization. In order to pursue our identified opportunities, as well as any other opportunities for our services we identify, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure and operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of the foregoing could be affected by one of more of the following factors: • the ability of our equipment, equipment suppliers and service providers to perform as we expect; • our ability to execute our strategy, which could be affected by our limited experience in providing high-speed transmission services; • our ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; • our ability to negotiate acceptable agreements to secure suitable locations for our radios and antennas; • our ability to manage the expansion of our operations, which could result in increased costs, high employee turnover or damage to customer relationships; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which may be affected by the significant competition in our industry for persons experienced in network operations and engineering; • equipment failure or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our customers; • our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving demands of the markets we serve; and, • our ability to raise substantial additional capital to fund our growth, if required. Our failure to adequately address the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan with respect to mobile backhaul and fiber network extensions and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. If our services do not achieve market acceptance we may lose or not obtain revenue and our ability to achieve profitability would suffer. Because the provision of wireless high-speed transmission services represents an emerging sector of the telecommunications industry, the demand for our services is uncertain. A substantial market for our services may not develop. The demand for our services may be adversely affected by: • historical perceptions of the unreliability of previous wireless technologies; • our bankruptcy and the bankruptcies of Teligent, Winstar (currently IDT Spectrum), XO and other emerging telecommunications companies; • concerns about the security of transmissions over wireless networks or links; • the lack of market history of operational fixed wireless services; and • the possible desire of customers to acquire telecommunications services from a single provider. The telecommunications market is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial and other resources, which may affect our ability to attract customers and grow and maintain our sales. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. In the short-term, we expect to face competition from other high capacity service providers utilizing point-to-point telecommunications, broadband, fiber and other wireless companies. As we seek more long-term opportunities to provide our services, we may face competition from such providers, as well as from satellite communications companies, internet service providers, cable television operators and others seeking to profit from the demand for wireless, high-speed services. We also expect to compete with new providers and technologies not yet 17 introduced. To date, we do not have a significant market share in any of the markets in which we are operating. Given the intense competition, we may be unable to compete effectively with these and other technologies and service providers in the short-term, and consequently we may be unable to attract customers and grow and maintain our sales, or we may experience difficulty in responding to any longer-term opportunities that might develop. Many of our competitors are larger, have greater financial and other resources and have more experience than we have. As a result, these competitors may be better able to develop and exploit new and better technologies, adapt to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services or more rapidly deploy telecommunication services than we can. Our spectrum leasing strategy may not be accepted by the telecommunications carriers. Prior to the FCC’s Secondary Market Ruling in October 2003, leasing small amounts of spectrum was not previously widespread because of regulatory constraints. As a result, there is no track record for companies pursuing this strategy. Subsequent to that ruling, the regulatory constraints have been substantially reduced and spectrum holders are beginning to lease spectrum with slightly more frequency. Despite the removal of the regulatory constraints, large telecommunication carriers may not be willing to lease, rather than own, spectrum upon which their business is dependent, decreasing demand for our leasing products, which could adversely affect our revenues. There are few barriers to entry to spectrum leasing. Other entities hold similar FCC licenses to operate in the same markets as we do. These entities may also lease spectrum to telecommunication companies. They may be able to offer lower prices than we do or may have more spectrum available to lease in a market than we do, limiting the growth of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 