Item 1A. Risk Factors We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend. Since the latter half of 2007, severely depressed economic conditions have prevailed in portions of the United States and in California, in which we hold substantially all of our loans. As of June 30, 2010, approximately 85% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers located in Southern California. Southern California, in particular Riverside County, has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates. A worsening of economic conditions in California, particularly Southern California, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: § an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; 48 § the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets; § a decline in demand for our products and services; § a continuing decline in the value of collateral for loans may in turn reduce customers’ borrowing power, and the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and § a decrease in the amount of our low cost or non-interest bearing deposits. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2010, $583.1 million, or 55.7% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by single-family residential real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices, coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, a lack of growth and/or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Our prior emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we originated $1.80 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, in single-family residential loans. We historically sell the vast majority of the single-family residential loans we originate and retain the remaining loans in our single-family loan portfolio held for investment. As a result of our current focus on managing our problem assets, loans originated for investment were limited to $1.2 million and $8.9 million of single-family loans during these same time periods, virtually all of which conform to or satisfy the requirements for sale in the secondary market. Prior to fiscal 2009, many of the loans we originated for investment consisted of non-traditional single-family residential loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the borrower or property, the loan terms, loan size or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines. In exchange for the additional risk to us associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio was generally required than for a conforming loan. Our non-traditional single-family residential loans include interest-only loans, loans to borrowers who provided limited or no documentation of their income or stated income loans, negative amortization loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment is added to loan principal up to 115% of the original loan to value ratio), more than 30-year amortization loans, and loans to borrowers with a FICO score below 660 (these loans are considered subprime by the OTS). Including these low FICO score loans, as of June 30, 2010, borrowers of our single-family residential loans held by us for investment had a weighted average FICO score of 733 at the time of origination. As of June 30, 2010, these non-traditional loans totaled $463.2 million, comprising 79.4% of total single-family residential loans held for investment and 44.3% of total loans held for investment. At that date, interest-only loans totaled $309.9 million, stated income loans totaled $300.5 million, negative amortization loans totaled $9.6 million, more than 30-year amortization loans totaled $20.4 million, and low FICO score loans totaled $18.3 million (the outstanding balances described may overlap more than one category). In the case of interest-only loans, a borrower’s monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status. Of the $309.9 million of interest-only loans, $38.1 million begin to fully amortize within five years and $271.8 million begin to fully amortize after five years. Since the borrower’s monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to afford the increased monthly payment at the time of conversion. Additionally, lower prevailing prices for residential real estate may make it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes to pay off their mortgages and tightened underwriting standards may make it difficult for borrowers to refinance their loan prior to the time of conversion to fully- 49 amortizing status. At June 30, 2010, $40.5 million of our interest-only single-family residential loans were non-performing and $3.2 million were 30-89 days delinquent. In the case of stated income loans, a borrower may misrepresent his income or source of income (which we have not verified) to obtain the loan. The borrower may not have sufficient income to qualify for the loan amount and may not be able to make the monthly loan payment. At June 30, 2010, $44.8 million of our stated income single-family residential loans were non-performing and $3.6 million were 30-89 days delinquent. In the case of more than 30-year amortization loans, the term of the loan requires many more monthly payments from the borrower (ultimately increasing the cost of the home) and subjects the loan to more interest rate cycles, economic cycles and employment cycles, which increases the possibility that the borrower is negatively impacted by one of these cycles and is no longer willing or able to meet his or her monthly payment obligations. At June 30, 2010, $1.4 million of our more than 30-year amortization single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. Negative amortization is only permitted up to a specified level and the payment on such loans is subject to increased payments when the level is reached, adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents and potentially resulting in higher payments by the borrower. The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments. Also, real estate values may decline and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their mortgages to pay off their mortgage obligation. Non-conforming single-family residential loans are considered to have an increased risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure than conforming loans and may result in higher levels of realized loss. We have experienced such increased delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and cannot assure you that our single-family loans will not be further adversely affected in the event of a further downturn in regional or national economic conditions. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses greater than we currently estimate and potentially need to record a higher provision for loan losses. Furthermore, non-conforming loans are not as readily saleable as loans that conform to agency guidelines and often can be sold only after discounting the amortized value of the loan. As of June 30, 2010, 9.93% of such loans, totaling $44.6 million, were in non-performing status, compared to 9.24% of such loans, totaling $53.0 million, in non-performing status as of June 30, 2009 and 2.24% of such loans, totaling $15.9 million, in non-performing status as of June 30, 2008. High loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a concurrent second mortgage for sale with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100% or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our multi-family and commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by residential and non-residential properties. At June 30, 2010, we had $453.9 million or 43.4% of total loans held for investment in multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating 50 expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by single-family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as single-family residential real estate. In addition, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a multi-family or commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for a single-family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on multi-family and commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our single-family residential or consumer loan portfolios. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during recent years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $21.8 million and $48.7 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $23.8 million and $23.1 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Adverse conditions in the general economy and our markets have been a significant contributing factor to increased levels of loan delinquencies and non-performing assets during the past two fiscal years. General economic conditions, decreased home prices, slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market have caused delinquencies and foreclosures of our single-family residential loans to remain high during the past two fiscal years. Single-family residential loans represented 86.1% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2010, our total non-performing assets had decreased to $73.5 million compared to $88.3 million at June 30, 2009 but remained elevated compared to $32.5 million at June 30, 2008. Further, our single-family residential loan portfolio, which comprised 55.7% of our total loan portfolio at June 30, 2010, is concentrated in non-traditional single-family loans, which include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated income loans and low FICO score loans, all of which have a higher risk of default and loss than conforming residential mortgage loans. See “Our emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk” above. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we will likely continue to experience significant delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur net losses and experience continuing variation in our operating results. We reported net income of $1.1 million and $860,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2008, respectively; however, we recorded a net loss of $7.4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The loss in fiscal 2009 primarily resulted from our high level of non-performing assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. Although we were profitable for fiscal 2010, we continue to experience elevated levels of non-performing assets and provisions for loan losses, factors which could continue and could cause us to incur net losses in future quarterly or annual periods. In addition, several factors affecting our business can cause significant variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of our loan originations and sales, the differences between our costs of funds and the average interest rates of originated or purchased loans, our inability to complete significant loan sale transactions in a particular quarter and problems generally affecting the mortgage loan industry can result in significant increases or decreases in our revenues from quarter to quarter. A delay in closing a particular loan sale transaction during a quarter or year could postpone recognition of the gain on sale of loans. If we were unable to sell a sufficient number of loans at a premium in a 51 particular reporting period, our revenues for such period would decline, resulting in lower net income and possibly a net loss for such period, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: § cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; § the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; the duration of the loan; § the credit history of a particular borrower; and § changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: § our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and § our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 4.14% of gross loans held for investment and 74.00% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2010. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as REO and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 52 An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by governmental sponsored entities (“GSE”) or our ability to qualify for such programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family residential loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and non-GSE investors on a servicing released basis. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for single-family residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. We believe our ability to retain mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. Any breach of representations and warranties made by us to our loan purchasers or credit default on our loan sales may require us to repurchase or substitute such loans we have sold. We engage in bulk loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us to the loan purchaser. Any misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process or, in some cases, upon any fraud or early payment default on such mortgage loans, may require us to repurchase or substitute loans. Any claims asserted against us in the future by one of our loan purchasers may result in liabilities or legal expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. At June 30, 2010 we had $11.4 million in loan repurchase requests that we are currently contesting and had repurchased $368,000 of loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, although many repurchase requests were settled that did not result in the repurchase of the loan itself. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings. We employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our loans held for sale, originated interest rate locks and our mortgage servicing asset. Our hedging activity varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into other mortgage-backed derivatives. There are, however, no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Moreover, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: § available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; § the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; § the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; 53 § the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; § the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value; and § downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact stockholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Additionally, a substantial majority of our single-family mortgage loans held for investment are adjustable rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. We are subject to various regulatory requirements and may be subject to future additional regulatory restrictions and enforcement actions. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our level of non-performing assets, delinquencies, and classified assets, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and additional regulatory restrictions, and may become subject to potential enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could place limitations on our business and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. Even though the Bank remains well-capitalized, the regulatory agencies have the authority to restrict our operations to those consistent with adequately capitalized institutions. For example, if the regulatory agencies were to impose such a restriction, we would likely have limitations on our lending activities. The regulatory agencies also have the power to limit the rates paid by the Bank to attract retail deposits in our local markets. We also may be required to reduce our levels of non-performing assets within specified time frames. These time frames might not necessarily result in maximizing the price that might otherwise be received for the underlying properties. In addition, if such restrictions were also imposed upon other institutions that operate in the Bank’s markets, multiple institutions disposing of properties at the same time could further diminish the potential proceeds received from the sale of these properties. If any of these or other additional restrictions are placed on us, it would limit the resources currently available to us as a well-capitalized institution. In July 2009, the OTS notified both Provident and the Bank that each had been designated to be in “troubled condition.” As a result of that designation, neither Provident nor the Bank may appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without notifying the OTS. In addition, neither party may make indemnification and severance payments or enter into other forms of compensation agreements with any of their respective directors or officers without the prior written approval of the OTS. Dividend payments by Provident require the prior written non-objection of the OTS Regional Director and dividend payments by the Bank requires the Bank to submit an application to the OTS and receive OTS approval before a dividend payment can be made. The Bank is also subject to restrictions on asset growth. These restrictions require the Bank to limit its asset growth in any quarter to an amount not to exceed net interest credited on deposit liabilities, excluding permitted growth as a result of cash capital contributions from the Corporation. The Bank may also not enter into any third party contracts outside of the ordinary course of business without regulatory approval. In 54 addition, the Bank may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit. The Bank, however, has not relied upon brokered deposits as a significant source of funds and at June 30, 2010 the Bank had only $19.6 million of brokered deposits. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2010 and 2009 was $2.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively. In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments of up to five basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will hurt our earnings. Additionally, in November 2009, the FDIC required financial institutions to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The Bank prepaid $10.4 million in December 2009 and as of June 30, 2010, the outstanding balance, after estimated accruals, was $8.1 million. Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued weak or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. If the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or other wholesale funding sources. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. With the proceeds from the follow-on offering in December 2009, our capital resources satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. 55 We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family residential loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower’s payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. The State of California recently enacted a law that places severe restrictions on the ability of a mortgagee to foreclose on real estate securing residential mortgage loans. This law prohibits a foreclosure until the later of at least three months plus 90 days after the filing of the notice of default. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress or the State of California in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on single-family residential loans. A federal rule which took effect July 6, 2010, prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This recent federal rule is likely to adversely affect the results of our operations by reducing the amount of our non-interest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse impact on us. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act which, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd Frank-Act, the Bank’s primary regulator, the OTS, will be eliminated and existing federal thrifts, including the Bank, will be subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Corporation, will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, which will have the authority to promulgate new regulations governing the Corporation that will impose additional capital requirements and may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. These transfers of regulatory authority will occur on July 21, 2011, unless extended for up to an additional six months. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. One year after the date of its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on our competitors’ responses, this change could materially increase our interest expense. Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are described in this report under “Item 1. Business--Regulation.” Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations is expected to result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank’s business. In the current economic environment, the Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a 56 result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. Earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and borrowers’ inability to repay loans. Since our geographic concentration is in Southern California, we are subject to earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. A major earthquake or other natural disaster may disrupt our business operations for an indefinite period of time and could result in material losses, although we have not experienced any losses in the past six years as a result of earthquake damage or other natural disaster. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to our own property, a substantial number of our borrowers would likely incur property damage to the collateral securing their loans. Although we are in an earthquake prone area, we and other lenders in the market area may not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan. Additionally, if the collateralized properties are only damaged and not destroyed to the point of total insurable loss, borrowers may suffer sustained job interruption or job loss, which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. Our assets as of June 30, 2010 include a deferred tax asset, the full value of which we may not be able to realize. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At June 30, 2010, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $13.8 million, a decrease from a balance of approximately $15.4 million at June 30, 2009. The net deferred tax asset results primarily from our provisions for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which has been significantly larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting proposes. As a result of our follow-on stock offering in December 2009, we may experience an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain “5% shareholders” over a rolling three-year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward period of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at June 30, 2010 is fully realizable based on our expected future earnings; however, we will not know the impact of the recent ownership change until we complete our fiscal 2010 tax return. Based on our preliminary analysis of the actual impact of the “ownership change” on our deferred tax assets, we believe that the impact on our deferred tax asset is unlikely to be material. This is a preliminary and complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. As a result, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 57 We have agreed to comply with certain requirements of the OTS and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and /or additional regulatory actions. In July 2009, the OTS notified both Provident and the Bank that each had been designated to be in “troubled condition.” As a result of that designation, neither Provident nor the Bank may appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without notifying the OTS. In addition, neither party may make indemnification and severance payments or enter into other forms of compensation agreements with any of their respective directors or officers without the prior written approval of the OTS. Dividend payments by Provident require the prior written non-objection of the OTS Regional Director and dividend payments by the Bank requires the Bank to submit an application to the OTS and receive OTS approval before a dividend payment can be made. The Bank is also subject to restrictions on asset growth. These restrictions require the Bank to limit its asset growth in any quarter to an amount not to exceed net interest credited on deposit liabilities, excluding permitted growth as a result of cash capital contributions from the Corporation. The Bank may also not enter into any third party contracts outside of the ordinary course of business without regulatory approval. In addition, the Bank may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit. The Bank, however, has not relied upon brokered deposits as a significant source of funds and at June 30, 2010 the Bank had only $19.6 million of brokered deposits. In June 2010, in connection with the continuing challenges in its operating environment, the Bank and the Corporation agreed to comply with additional requirements of the OTS. The Bank must, among other things, increase the risk weight factors of certain single-family residential mortgage loans that were underwritten to stated income or interest-only loan programs for the purpose of determining total risk-based capital. Also, the Bank must: • submit a written business plan for the next three fiscal years that is acceptable to the OTS; • submit a plan to reduce classified assets, that is acceptable to the OTS; • submit a plan to reduce its concentration of non-traditional mortgage loans, that is acceptable to the OTS; • not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit; • not increase its assets during any quarter in excess of an amount equal to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the prior quarter without the non-objection of the OTS; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS prior to any changes in management; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS and the FDIC prior to any severance and indemnification payments; • not enter into, renew, extend or revise any employment contracts and compensation arrangement of management without prior notice to the OTS; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS prior to entering into any third-party contracts; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS prior to declaring a dividend; and • provide notice to the OTS prior to engaging in any transaction with an affiliate. The Corporation must, among other things, support the Bank’s compliance with the agreed upon requirements of the OTS. Also, the Corporation must: • provide notice to and obtain written non-objection from the OTS prior to declaring a dividend or redeeming any capital stock or receiving dividends or other payments from the Bank; • provide notice to and obtain written non-objection from the OTS prior to incurring, issuing, renewing or repurchasing any new debt; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS prior to any changes in management; • provide notice to and obtain a non-objection from the OTS and the FDIC prior to any severance and indemnification payments; and • not enter into, renew, extend or revise any employment contracts and compensation arrangement of management without prior notice to the OTS. The requirements are similar to those applicable to the Bank and the Corporation that were automatically imposed by the OTS in 2009 in connection with the troubled condition designation. They will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the OTS. If the OTS were to determine that the Corporation or the Bank were not in compliance with their respective agreed upon requirements, it would have available various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict the growth of the Corporation or the Bank, to remove officers and/or directors, and to assess civil monetary penalties. Management of 58 the Corporation and the Bank have been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements. Although compliance will be determined by the OTS, management believes that the Corporation and the Bank have complied in all material respects with the agreed upon requirements as of the date of this Form 10-K, including the risk-based capital requirements and restrictions on brokered deposits imposed by the OTS. The OTS may determine, however, in its sole discretion that the issues raised have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business at the Corporation and the Bank and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, pay dividends on our common stock and the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 