ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our past experience may not be indicative of future performance, and as noted elsewhere in this report, we have included forward-looking statements about our business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections “Description of Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list of the risks we face; some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that we currently perceive as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. Risks Relating to our Company The Bank was recently issued a cease and desist order from the FDIC and the State of Oregon which limits the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Columbia and places other limitations and obligations on the bank. On February 9, 2009, the Bank consented to the issuance by the FDIC and the State of Oregon of a cease and desist order (the “Order”) based on certain findings from an examination of the Bank concluded in September 2008 based upon financial and lending data measured as of June 30, 2008. The Order alleges charges of unsafe or unsound banking practices and violation of federal and state law and/or regulations. By consenting to the Order, the Bank neither admitted nor denied the alleged charges. The FDIC ordered that the bank cease and desist from the following unsafe and unsound banking practices: (i) operating with management whose policies and practices are detrimental to the Bank and jeopardize the safety of its deposits; (ii) operating with a board of directors which has failed to provide adequate supervision over and direction to the active management of the Bank; (iii) operating with inadequate capital in relation to the kind and quality of the Bank’s assets; (iv) operating with an inadequate loan valuation reserve and a large volume of poor loan quality loans; (v) operating in such a manner as to produce operating losses; (vi) operating with inadequate provision for liquidity; and (vii) operating in violation of certain laws and/or regulations. The Order further requires the Bank to take certain corrective measure to ensure safe and sound banking practices, and compliance with federal and state laws and regulations in the future. Among other provisions, the Order requires the Bank to maintain above-normal capital levels; specifically, the Bank must maintain Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% beginning 90 days from the issuance of the order. The Bank must also develop and adopt a plan to meet and maintain the minimum risk-based capital requirements for a “well capitalized” bank, including a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. In addition to bolstering its capital, the Order requires that the Bank retain qualified management and must notify the FDIC and the State of Oregon in writing when it proposes to add any individual to its board of directors or to employ any new senior executive officer. Under the corrective program the Bank’s board of directors must also increase its participation in the affairs of the Bank, assuming full responsibility for the approval of sound policies and objectives for the supervision of all the Bank’s activities. 17 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents The regulatory order further requires the Bank to increase allowance for loan losses by $25.00 million, a step that was taken during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008, and to revise its existing policy for estimating the adequacy of its loan loss allowance to address the current state of the local and regional economy, particularly in the real estate sector. The Bank also must eliminate certain classified assets and must develop a plan for the reduction, collection and/or disposition of delinquent loans, as well as reducing loans to borrowers in the troubled commercial real estate market sector. The Order also requires the Bank to develop a written three-year strategic plan and a plan to preserve liquidity. The Bank is required to implement these measures under strict time frames and we can offer no assurance that the Bank will be able to implement such measures in the time frame provided, or at all. Failure to implement the measure in the time frame provided, or at all, could result in additional orders or penalties from the FDIC and the State of Oregon, which could include further restrictions on the Bank’s business, assessment of civil money penalties on the Bank, as well as its directors, officers and other affiliated parties, termination of deposit insurance, removal of one or more officers and/or directors and the liquidation or other closure of the Bank. In addition, management will be required to devote a great deal of time to the implementation of these measures. The devotion of such management resources may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures. We are operating under certain regulatory restrictions that may further impair our revenues, operating income and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the Oregon Division of Finance and Corporate Securities, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. If we are unable to meet these regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements imposed by our regulators. An inability to meet these capital requirements would result in numerous mandatory supervisory actions and additional regulatory restrictions, and could have a negative impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. At December 31, 2008, we were “adequately capitalized” by regulatory definition. This designation affects our eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals as well as our ability to accept brokered deposits without the prior approval of the FDIC. If we do not remain “adequately capitalized” we would be subject to further restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions and our ability to grow. Failure to meet capital requirements imposed by certain regulatory restrictions will have a negative impact on our financial conditions, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory capital guidelines, which are used to evaluate our capital adequacy based primarily on the regulatory weighting for credit risk associated with certain balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures such as unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. To be “adequately capitalized” we must have a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4%, a combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, and a leverage ratio of at least 4%, and not be subject to a directive, order, or written agreement to meet and maintain specific capital levels. Generally, to be “well-capitalized” a bank must have a Tier 1 ratio of at least 6%, a combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, and a leverage ratio of at least 5%, and not be subject to a directive, order, or written agreement to meet and maintain specific capital levels. As of December 31, 2008, we were deemed “adequately capitalized” by regulatory definition. However, pursuant to the Order, we must maintain above-normal capital levels; specifically, the Bank must maintain Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% beginning 90 days from the issuance of the order. The bank must also develop and adopt a plan to meet and maintain the minimum risk-based capital requirements for a “well capitalized” bank, including a total risk-based capital ration of at least 10%. If we are unable to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 18 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents Federal banking regulators are required to take prompt corrective action if an insured depository institution fails to satisfy certain minimum capital requirements, including a leverage limit, a risk-based capital requirement, and any other measure of capital deemed appropriate by the federal banking regulator for measuring the capital adequacy of an insured depository institution. Our inability to meet the required capital ratios would result in numerous mandatory supervisory actions and additional regulatory restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions, our ability to grow, our ability to raise deposits (particularly in the wholesale market) and could negatively impact the manner in which we are regulated by state and federal banking regulators. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future to augment capital ratios or levels or improve liquidity, but capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Pursuant to the Order we are required to maintain above-normal capital levels; specifically, the Bank must maintain Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% beginning 90 days from the issuance of the order. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to offset elevated risks arising from adverse economic conditions, comply with the Order, support our business, finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Current market conditions and investor uncertainty have made it very challenging for financial institutions in general to raise capital. There can be no assurance that we could successfully raise additional capital or that if such capital was available its price would not be significantly dilutive to shareholders. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, including a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of the downturn in the Washington or Oregon markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. As of December 31, 2008 our primary sources for liquidity are from retail deposits and available borrowings at the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”). Our liquidity may be impaired due to sharp declines in retail deposit balances or inability to access wholesale liability sources. Liquidity measures our ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Our liquidity is primarily dependent on retail deposits gathered from our branch network and wholesale liability sources. During 2007 and the first three quarters of 2008, retail deposit growth slowed due to the general economic downturn and competition from other financial institutions. As a result, during 2008 we relied on wholesale liabilities for liquidity management. Wholesale liability sources include correspondent banks, the Federal Home Loan Bank, deposit brokers and other institutional depositors. This could force us to borrow heavily from the FHLB and FRB, or if more pronounced, may require us to seek protection from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If we are unable to meet minimum capital requirements, FRB or FHLB could restrict or limit our access to secured borrowings. Such actions could have the effect of reducing secured borrowing capacity. In addition, the State of Oregon Treasurer has the discretion to increase required level of collateral to pledge against public deposits held at the bank from 10% to 110%. Any such action would have the net effect of reducing total secured borrowing capacity. Correspondent banks have reduced the Bank’s access to unsecured short term borrowings due to market conditions and the Bank’s elevated liquidity and 2008 loss. Further reduction in our liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents Recent and continuing adverse developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may further affect our operations and results and the value of our common stock. The national and global economic downturn has recently resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which has depressed overall the market value of financial institutions, limited access to capital, and has had a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies in general and Columbia in particular. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to such developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance and the value of our common stock. In addition, the possible duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle is unknown and may exacerbate the Company’s exposure to credit risk. Treasury and FDIC programs have been initiated to address economic stabilization, however the efficacy of these programs in stabilizing the economy and the banking system at large are uncertain. Details as to our participation or access to such programs and their subsequent impact on us also remain uncertain and there can be no assurance that such programs will be available to us. Our allowance for loan losses is based on significant estimates and may be inadequate to cover actual losses. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in a timely fashion and that collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to ensure timely repayment. Borrowers’ inability to timely repay their loans could erode our bank’s earnings and capital. Our allowance for loan losses represents our best estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Estimation of the allowance requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of loans in our portfolio. These assumptions and judgments include historical loan loss experience, current credit profiles of our borrowers, adverse situations that have occurred that may affect a borrower’s ability to meet his financial obligations, the estimated value of underlying collateral and general economic conditions. Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions that may be beyond our control. Because our assumptions and judgments may not adequately predict future loan losses, actual loan losses may be significantly higher than provided for in the allowance. In these cases, we would be required to recognize higher provisions for loan losses, which would decrease our net income and negatively impact our results of operations. Banking industry regulators may require us to recognize additional loan losses based on their examination and review of our business. Representatives of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the DFCS, our principal regulators, have publicly expressed concerns about the banking industry’s lending practices and have particularly noted concerns about real estate-secured lending. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. As a result of examination, we might be required to recognize additional provisions for loan losses or charge-off selected loans. Any additional provision for loan losses or charge-off of loans would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 20 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in real estate lending and much of that portfolio is collateralized only by real estate. As a result of this concentration and an overall decline in real estate markets generally, and particularly in our geographic markets, we may face greater than average exposure to loan losses. In the past, we have focused a substantial portion of our lending business on residential and commercial construction lending and in commercial leased or owner-occupied real property. A substantial majority of our loan portfolio is secured by mortgages on real property. Real estate lending is accompanied by two specific risks: the risk that real estate developers and builders (in the case of construction real estate) and business owners (in the case of leased and owner-occupied commercial real estate) cannot generate cash flows sufficient to repay their loans in a timely manner, and the risk that the underlying collateral may decline in value, increasing the risk that we may be unable to recover the full value of any defaulted loans by foreclosing on the real estate that secures the loans. During 2008, in the third and fourth quarters in particular, we have experienced significant increases in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in residential sub-division projects. We could see an increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. If these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses may increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our earnings may be impacted negatively by changes in market interest rates. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Based on our current volume and mix of interest bearing liabilities and interest earning assets, net interest spread could generally be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if the market interest rate changes such that the interest we earn on loans and investments decreases faster than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. We manage our interest rate risk exposure by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Because of the differences in maturities and re-pricing characteristics of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases, accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest income, asset quality, and loan origination volume. If conditions in non-real estate sectors of the economy worsen, we may experience an increase in loan delinquencies and losses in other parts of our portfolio. During 2008, loan losses have been centered in real estate construction and development loans. Ongoing weakness in the residential real estate market or other unexpected events may cause other areas of the economy to falter. In particular, the effects of higher unemployment, declining consumer confidence and difficulties in other non-real estate sectors of the economy may stress other parts of our loan portfolio not currently experiencing problems. This may result in a higher level of non-accrual loans and loan losses in these parts of the portfolio, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 21 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the FDIC’s recently announced temporary liquidity guarantee program. Due to recent bank failures, the FDIC insurance fund reserve ratio has fallen below 1.15%, the statutory minimum. The FDIC has developed a proposed restoration plan that will uniformly increase insurance assessments by 7 basis points (annualized). The plan also proposes changes to the deposit insurance assessment system requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. An increase in premium assessments would increase our expenses. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to $250,000. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced a new program — the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in non-interest bearing and interest bearing earning less than 0.50% interest transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. All eligible institutions will be covered under the program for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions will be assessed a 10 basis point surcharge on the additional insured deposits. The behavior of depositors in regard to the level of FDIC insurance could cause our existing customers to reduce the amount of deposits held at the Bank, and could cause new customers to open deposit accounts at the Bank. The level and composition of the Bank’s deposit portfolio directly impacts the Bank’s funding cost and net interest margin. The Federal Reserve Bank has been providing vast amounts of liquidity into the banking system to compensate for weaknesses in short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets. A reduction in the Federal Reserve’s activities or capacity could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations. In the event that the Bank’s funding costs are increased or the availability of funds from the Federal Reserve is reduced it could have a negative material effect on our earnings and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state regulations which undergo frequent and often significant changes. Federal and state regulation of financial institutions is designed primarily to protect depositors, borrowers and shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes and have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Changes in laws and regulations may affect our cost of doing business, limit our permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or our competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions and change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. The effect of laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The weakened housing market may result in a decline in fair value of Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”). In recent months we have foreclosed on certain real estate development loans and have taken possession of several residential subdivision properties. OREO is initially recorded at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. Because of the weak housing market and declining land values, we may incur losses to write-down OREO to new fair values or losses from the final sale of properties. Moreover, our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. 22 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking subsidiary, Columbia River Bank, and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund any cash dividend payments on our common stock and to fund payments on our other obligations. The Bank is subject to laws and regulations that restrict, or authorize regulatory bodies to restrict or reduce, the flow of funds from the Bank to us. Restrictions of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make dividend payments on our common stock, or payments on our other obligations. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. There are regulatory and contractual limitations that may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the common stock and we may limit or eliminate our dividends to shareholders. As a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations. We are an entity separate and distinct from our subsidiary, Columbia River Bank, and derive substantially all of our revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Accordingly, we are dependent upon dividends from the Bank to satisfy its cash needs and to pay dividends on its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the Bank’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors. Our board of directors regularly reviews our dividend policy in light of current economic conditions for financial institutions as well as our capital needs. On a quarterly basis, the board of directors determines whether a dividend will be paid and in what amount. No assurance can be given concerning dividend payments in future periods. We have no plans to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Our business operations are geographically concentrated in Oregon and Washington and our business is sensitive to the economic conditions of those areas. Substantially all of our business is derived from a twelve—county area in northern and central Oregon and southern and central Washington. The communities we serve typically have population bases of 20,000 to 250,000, and have traditionally created employment opportunities in the areas of agriculture, timber, electrical power generation, light manufacturing, construction and transportation. While we have built our expansion strategy around these growing and diverse geographic markets, our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions we serve, may have a more pronounced effect upon our business than they might on an institution that is more geographically diversified. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. 23 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The financial services business has become increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally based on the efficiency and quality of our service and also based on pricing of interest rates and loan fees. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Some of these competitors are subject to similar regulation but have the advantages of larger established client bases, higher lending limits, no federal income or state franchise taxation, extensive branch networks, numerous ATMs, greater advertising-marketing budgets and other factors. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may limit our ability to attract new customers, reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a client-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future success to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executives and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with several members of senior management. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. Our future success will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new client relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing clients if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these resources is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. Our ability to operate profitably may depend on our ability to implement various technologies into our operations. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, and internet-based banking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. If we are not able to afford such technologies, properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies, or properly train our staff to use such technologies, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. FDIC closure of local banks and related publicity could create a liquidity risk. Due to the economic conditions facing the nation and the banking industry, the number of bank failures has dramatically increased in late 2008 and will likely continue to increase into 2009. The publicity surrounding these failures could result in a run on the deposits of other banks located in the same communities or market areas which would adversely affect the liquidity profile of such banks. 24 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle or the national Federal Home Loan Bank System may have a material negative impact on our earnings and liquidity. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and that it did not expect to comply with those requirements at December 31, 2008 due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Bank, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. As of December 31, 2008, we held $3.05 million of common stock in the FHLB of Seattle. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, we anticipate that our investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other-than-temporarily” impaired and may have no value. As of December 31, 2008, we held $22.23 million of cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle. At that date, all other cash and cash equivalents were held on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, or on hand in branch office vaults. As of December 31, 2008, we maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle totaling $54.18 million, which is available to the extent the Bank provides qualifying collateral and holds sufficient FHLB stock. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with collateral requirements and $17.57 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. We are highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide a primary source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair our ability to meet short and long term liquidity demands. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 25 — Columbia Bancorp Table of Contents 