ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The discussion in this Item 1A and in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 4 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “should” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including but not limited to the following: • Our ability to successfully execute our plans to achieve our goal of profitability at lower revenue levels than we experienced in 2005; • Our belief that subsequent to our plan to achieve profitability at lower levels of revenue, opportunities will exist to allow us to achieve top line growth through both internal efforts and acquisition activities; • The negative effect on our revenues of our PC-OEM customers’ continuing initiatives to eliminate certain recovery CDs and print material from some of their new PC shipments, coupled with the opportunity to offset some of this effect with new business from those customers; • The negative effect on our revenues of the previously discussed announcement by one of our major customers to expand their internal media production capabilities; • The strength of our customer relationships, the related impact on our ability to retain such customers and our ability to develop new customers in the future; • Our ability to execute our restructuring activities and that our existing customers will not be negatively impacted due to potential disruption in our ability to provide continuing effective service; • Our ability to transition our business model to one that is less vertically integrated and more dependent on strategic supplier partnerships without disrupting service levels to our customers; • The impact of polycarbonate and other raw material price increases on our gross profit margins and our ability to pass these price increases on to our customers; • Our general expectations about our ability to meet the challenges of our business; • The growth prospects of supply-chain outsourcing services; • The impact on our revenues resulting from our ability or willingness to perform our services at prices required by or mandated by our customers; • The sufficiency of our cash balances and cash generated from operating and financing activities for our future liquidity and capital resource needs; • Our competitive position relative to other companies providing similar services; • Our ability to retain key executive and management personnel through our transition; • Our relationships more generally with our employees and managing turnover while the company transitions service models; • The potential negative impact on profitability due to the growing pricing pressure from competitors; • The potential threat caused by the development and rate of market acceptance of new media storage techniques or other electronic technologies on the need for CD and DVD media in the PC hardware and software industries; • The growth opportunities associated with our efforts to broaden our customer base outside our traditional markets; and • Achievement of long-term benefits associated with necessary investments in our business. We caution that any forward-looking statements made by us in this report or in other announcements made by us are qualified by important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following listing of risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks and uncertainties described below may be amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation the changes and volatility in the personal computer hardware and software industry, particularly with respect to the demand for CD and DVD media, from which a significant portion of our revenues are derived; macroeconomic factors that influence the demand for personal computer hardware and software and the resulting demand for our services; consolidation among our customers or competitors, which could cause disruption in our customer relationships or displacement of us as a services provider to one or more customers; fluctuations in our operating results from quarter-to-quarter, which are influenced by many factors outside of our control, including variations in the demand for particular services we offer or the content included in the products we produce for our customers; as well as those identified below. 5 We are dependent on a small number of key customers in the personal computer (PC) hardware and software industries. Our business continues to be dependent on a small number of key customers in the PC hardware and software industries. Our top five customers in 2005, 2004, and 2003, were all members of these industries and in the aggregate represented approximately 62%, 58% and 50% of our total revenue, respectively. Accordingly, our operating results are influenced by the changes and volatility in these industries and the macroeconomic factors that influence the demand for personal computer hardware and software. In general, our contractual agreements with these and other customers allow them to terminate service with very little notice and without cause. Furthermore, significant portions of our revenue from these customers are derived from individually large product programs within these customers. As a result, our revenues can be materially sensitive to decisions customers make with respect to these individual programs. Included in our top five customers are Microsoft and Dell, from which we received, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of our revenues in each of 2005 and 2004. The loss of either of these customers or a significant change in their business requirements would have a material adverse effect on our operations. As previously discussed in our filings with the SEC, starting in the second quarter of 2004, we were informed of changes to certain programs we support for several of our large customers that would result in noticeable future declines in the level of business we currently had with these customers. The first of these customer-driven changes involves the elimination of certain recovery media and printed materials from some of the new PCs sold by our PC-OEM customers along with other changes. These changes began to significantly impact our revenues starting in the second quarter of 2005. In 2005, the continuing effects of these changes contributed approximately $22 million in year-over-year revenue decline in our PC-OEM customer base. We expect that this continuing initiative will negatively impact our revenues from this segment to a similar if not more significant degree for at least the first three quarters of 2006. While there may be an opportunity to offset some of this decline with program expansion in other segments of our business with some of our PC-OEM customers, we are not assured of the timing or size of those opportunities. We had also been informed in 2004 by one of our key customers that, possibly starting in 2005, a certain portion of their customer base supported by us will be migrated to a new service delivery system operated by one of our competitors. This new delivery system was completed subsequent to the end of the third quarter of 2005 and the change began to negatively impact our revenues and profitability in the fourth quarter of 2005. Looking forward, we believe this change will result in a year-over-year reduction in revenue from this customer of approximately $2.0 million in 2006. As we previously discussed, in the third quarter of 2005 one of our larger customers announced their plans to expand their internal capabilities for producing media. At that time, we were informed that the internal capabilities would only include DVD media and we did not anticipate that this change would have any affect on our business over the next twelve months. We were recently informed by this customer that the planned internal capabilities would include both CD and DVD media, the current forecasted implementation timeline would be July 2006, and that the customer’s intention is to supply all of their North American media for the programs we support on their behalf after that date. This change only impacts the media manufacturing component of our overall business with this customer. Given the uncertainty of the required program adjustments required to accommodate this change and the breadth of additional service support we will retain, we are unable to accurately quantify its potential effect on our business with this customer in 2006 and beyond. In addition to these and other market changes, our customers continue to demand general pricing decreases in the services we provide. We continue to evaluate our response to these pricing pressures and in some instances have implemented strategies designed to properly align our pricing with the value of products and services we provide. These pricing strategies may result in losses of significant portions of business if not accepted by our customers and affect our ability to increase or achieve consistent levels of revenue and profitability. In addition to the risk of program changes, the work we perform for our customers is periodically put out for competitive bid. We believe we have strong relationships with our current customers and that our knowledge of their business, our flexibility to meet their changing needs, our broad range of service capabilities and our strong balance sheet are important decision factors for them. However, the risk exists that we may not be the successful bidder, our profit margins will be negatively impacted by pricing changes necessary to retain their business, or that consolidation among our customers or competitors could cause disruption in our existing customer relationships. Some of our larger customers rely on unique information technology systems that we possess, which provides us a competitive advantage. However, there can be no assurances that this advantage will not be reduced or eliminated by alternative solutions developed internally by these customers or by our competitors. If we were to lose all or a significant portion of our business with one of these key customers, our revenues and profit margins would be materially and negatively impacted. In addition, competition in these industries, particularly the PC hardware industry, has resulted in the need for these companies to put continued pressure on their vendors, including Zomax, for price reductions and increased service levels. Finally, we have experienced operating losses in the recent past, including 2005. While our balance sheet remains strong and we have taken aggressive actions to address our operating losses; continued operating losses raise potential concerns with major customers that could result in them moving some or all of their business to an alternative provider. 6 While we continue to make efforts to expand our base of customers to those outside these industries, these initial customer opportunities tend to be smaller, making it very unlikely that we could quickly recover from the loss of one of our key customers through the acquisition of several new customers outside or within these industries. We may not be able to maintain our status as a Microsoft Authorized Replicator. We have been designated by Microsoft as an Authorized Replicator (AR) of their software and are one of a limited number of Microsoft AR’s in the United States. Retaining our status as a Microsoft AR requires that we continue to meet a number of stringent criteria established by Microsoft. Our status as a Microsoft AR is a requirement to replicate CD and DVD media software for our customers in the PC hardware industry that sell or use Microsoft software with their products. Our AR contract with Microsoft is scheduled for annual renewal in June 2006. We are unaware of any current matters that would jeopardize this renewal or our AR status. If, however, we were to lose our Microsoft AR status, we would lose a significant portion of our business with our customers that sell Microsoft software and our revenues and profitability would be materially and negatively impacted. Evolution to a less vertically integrated business model. Our existing business continues to be focused on CD and DVD media replication services and related assembly, distribution and contact center services which we deliver primarily through Company-owned or leased facilities. Our goal is to evolve into a less vertically integrated model in which we will deliver a more comprehensive supply chain solution for our customers along with lower fixed costs and capital tied up in assets for the Company. As our relationships with our customers evolve, we believe many of these customers will place greater value on our ability to program manage their end-to-end supply chain and less emphasis on our ability to directly deliver those services. We began a restructuring plan in 2005 which eliminated over 33% of our CD replication capacity. While this restructuring plan was primarily aimed at reducing this capacity and its related costs, it also represents a move toward less dependency on company-owned assets in the delivery of our services and will result in a greater dependence on outsourcing this volume in peak demand periods. We intend to continue to explore this strategy of reducing our reliance on internal replication capacity. We expect to continue to evolve our strategy of increasing our emphasis on the value we provide our customers through our program management capabilities, with less dependency on company-owned assets in delivering those services. However, this value proposition is not fully tested and we can not be assured that it will be accepted by the marketplace or that we will be successful in implementing it. Should we fully implement this model, we will face a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: • A program management business model is very dependent on customer relationships, vendor relationships and the ability of those vendors to commit and deliver to required service levels, and our ability to employ and retain qualified employees. It also requires the ability to deliver to service levels profitably when the delivery of these services is not always within the direct control of the company. • The implementation of this model will require that the skill sets of our employees be modified to align with the emphasis on program management capabilities. If we are not successful in doing so, it will impact our ability to be successful. • Changes in our service offerings resulting from this shift could negatively affect our revenue and profitability. • A shift toward less dependency on company-owned or leased facilities and equipment could result in additional restructuring activities and the need to continue to develop and implement future cost savings initiatives to align costs with the marketplace. These activities may not be successful or meet the changes in the marketplace and could have a disruptive impact on our customers and employees which could significantly affect future levels of revenue and profitability. • A program management business model requires a seamless, real time information technology infrastructure to link the supply chain from suppliers and partners through to the end of line customers. Building and supporting this infrastructure requires investment and there are no assurances we will be able to deliver a competitively effective and efficient solution. We may not be able to effectively compete in an increasingly competitive environment. Competition in the supply chain outsourcing services industry is intense. Our industry is currently characterized by many vendors pursuing relatively few and very large customers, which provides these customers with the ability to exert significant pressures on their suppliers. We have experienced and anticipate experiencing continued pricing pressures from current and 7 future competitors as well as general pricing pressure from our customers as part of their cost reduction efforts. These pricing pressures have, and may continue to limit our ability to achieve acceptable levels of profitability. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources and capabilities in information technology, global facilities, staff expertise and other areas that can limit our ability to make the investments required to remain competitive and be profitable. We have identified the need to continue to make additional investments in information technology, expansion into other geographical markets and the development and capabilities of our staff. However, we can not be assured that these investments will generate or sustain a particular competitive advantage. While we believe our capabilities are unique, they do not involve significant proprietary properties. Therefore, we are dependent primarily on our ability to provide exceptional service to our customers and maintain strong relationships with them. These relationships may be positively or negatively impacted by changes in personnel or shifts in strategies within Zomax, our customers or our competitors. We continue to face significant costs and resource constraints in connection with our compliance with the necessary reporting, compliance and administrative aspects of a public company. These requirements drive additional SG&A costs for professional services, both legal and accounting, governance, and management time to support all of the additional legislation imposed on public companies. Many of our competitors are not public entities or are larger public entities, and the related impact of complying with these requirements can affect our ability to perform competitively. Beginning in the first half of 2004, supply shortages and petroleum price increases have placed significant upward pressures on the price of polycarbonate, certain other raw materials and freight costs. Beginning in the first half of 2004, supply shortages and petroleum price increases have placed significant upward pressures on the price of polycarbonate, a petroleum-based plastic that is the primary raw material used in the manufacturing of CD and DVD media. While we believe there are alternative sources of polycarbonate available in addition to our current inventory of polycarbonate, we have entered into a new purchase agreement with our polycarbonate supplier that limits price increases through June 2006. However, the increases allowed under the previous agreement have had, and the increases allowed in the new agreement will continue to have, a negative impact on our gross profit margins. We have also experienced increases in other component and freight costs which suppliers have also attributed to petroleum price increases. While we worked with our customers in 2005 and continue to do so in 2006 to pass on to them some or all of these cost increases, we were not successful in every case and there are no assurances that we will be successful in doing so in the future or that our attempts to pass along these cost increases will not result in a loss of business to competitors. We may not be able to meet our customers’ requirements regarding the security of their intellectual property, inventory and other assets. We manage or take possession of many of our customers’ physical and intellectual properties. Much of this property consists of consigned inventory or intellectual property in our possession, the value of which is not reflected in our financial statements. If we fail to protect their property or meet their security requirements, we may be liable to these customers for penalties or reimbursement up to full retail value of the property and may lose their business, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on revenues from the replication of CD and DVD media which may be threatened by the development and rate of market acceptance of new media storage techniques or other electronic media technologies. Our business continues to be heavily dependent on the use of CD, and to a lesser degree, DVD media in the PC hardware and software industries. The increasing availability of broadband communications services, changes in fixed storage techniques used in the PC industry, and the development of alternative electronic storage and back-up technologies at lower costs, are examples of technologies that may threaten to reduce or eliminate the need for CD media in the PC hardware and software industries. A significant decline in the use of CD media in these industries would have a significant negative impact on our revenues and profitability. While we have established electronic software download (ESD) capabilities through our strategic alliance with Intraware, our success in this market has been limited. If we are unable to develop significant market penetration in the ESD market through this relationship or others, our ability to participate in the increasing shift to electronic delivery of software may be impacted. 8 Restructuring to move towards profitability. As previously discussed, in the second quarter of 2005 we began a restructuring plan that includes both cost reduction activities as well as the implementation of pricing strategies with an overall goal of moving towards profitability at a lower revenue level. After a careful study of our U.S. assembly and distribution infrastructure in the fourth quarter we announced our intent to close our Fremont, California facility. With the Fremont lease expiring in early 2006, we are transferring assembly, fulfillment and customer care activities from this facility to other Zomax operations. Transition of customer program support from this facility to other Zomax locations is on track and the closure of the facility is expected to be completed in early 2006. During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2005, the restructuring activities negatively impacted our ability to meet all service level requirements for selected customers. While we believe we have responded appropriately and that ultimately the changes will result in an improved service/delivery model for our customers, the risk of loss of revenue or future opportunities with these customers may be affected by this service level performance. In addition, the restructuring has resulted in some employee turnover and the risk exists that we may not be able to replace these employees on a timely basis with qualified and experienced people. We also continue to explore additional strategies to lower our overall costs which might result in the need for future facility closures, asset restructuring and other spending reductions. Limited visibility to customer demand. Given the dynamic market conditions in which we operate, our ability to accurately predict revenue and earnings for a given time period is difficult. Forward looking estimates or statements are subject to management’s interpretation of the data available at the time the statements are prepared and may not correlate with the actual results produced in the projected period. We have very limited visibility to our customers’ near or long-term demand for our services, and changes by our customers in the content of the products we produce for them can significantly affect our levels of reported revenue and related profits relative to our expectations. We concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not operating effectively as of December 31, 2004. During our review of internal controls in effect during 2004, we identified a material weakness, as more fully discussed in our Form 10-K for 2004. The assessment was that insufficient supervision and oversight of accounting personnel at our Ireland subsidiary led to incorrect accounting entries and reconciliations by Irish personnel. As a result, our financial statements for 2003 and the first three quarters of 2004 were restated. During 2005, we implemented a series of remediation steps to address this material weakness, and thus believe that these deficiencies have been corrected in 2005. Any additional material weakness may lead to a further negative impact on our financial results, including the possible loss of business from certain customers as a result of the uncertainties caused by any such weakness, a qualified report from our auditors, a loss in confidence in the reliability of our financial reports or a decline in the stock price due to an adverse reaction from the financial markets. In addition, the SEC has begun an informal inquiry into the circumstances in Ireland giving rise to the conclusion that a material weakness in our internal controls existed. While we are fully cooperating with the SEC in this matter, we may be the subject of governmental investigations or other proceedings. We are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations A portion of our operations are located in Ireland and Canada. A majority of the revenue from our Canadian operations, and a portion of the related costs, are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, our exposure to the Canadian currency results primarily from Canadian dollar denominated expenses. The majority of revenues and related costs in our Ireland operations are denominated in Euros. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are reflected in our financial statements and historically have not been material to our results of operations or financial condition. However, we anticipate we will continue to incur exchange gains and losses from foreign operations in the future which may be significant depending on factors such as changes in foreign currency or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. In addition, sales of our products and services may be directly impacted by the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements we make in this report due to new information or future events. Investors are advised to consult any further disclosures we make on this subject in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, in which we discuss in more detail various important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. Available Information See our web site at www.zomax.com for additional information regarding our products and services. All reports we file electronically with the SEC are available by contacting Investor Relations at investorrelations@zomax.com or (763) 553-9300. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may 9 obtain information for the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 