Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below regarding the business and the ownership of our shares. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, and the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Developments that have had a significant impact on our operations. Two major events in 2001 and early 2002 significantly changed our business operations: (i) the sale of substantially all of our European operations and (ii) the passage of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the "Security Act") by the United States Congress in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 pursuant to which the Federal government through the Transportation Security Administration (the "TSA") took over aviation security services in the U.S. in November 2002. As a result of these events, we have limited aviation security operations in Europe and in the U.S. We previously derived most of our revenues from the provision of aviation security services and we have developed substantial experience and expertise in that field. If we are unable to increase revenues from aviation security services, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in resolving our disagreements with the TSA there may be a significant material adverse effect on our financial condition. In February 2002, we entered into an aviation security services contract with the TSA to continue to provide aviation security services in all of our current airport locations until the earlier of either the completed transition of these security services on an airport by airport basis to the U.S. Federal Government or November 2002. In connection with payments made by the TSA to Huntleigh USA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for aviation security services provided in 2002, the Defense Contract Management Agency has indicated that it believes that Huntleigh should not have been paid on a fixed price basis as believed by Huntleigh, but on an actual costs plus basis what the TSA would consider a reasonable profit. On that later basis Huntleigh may be required to repay to the TSA the difference between such amount and the actual amounts paid to it. Huntleigh however has various claims for additional amounts it considers are due to it for the services provided to the TSA. If the TSA will claim such difference from Huntleigh and will prevail in all of its contentions, and none of Huntleigh's claims will be recognized, then the Company may suffer a loss in an amount of as much as $59 Million. The Company is engaged in litigation with the FAA/TSA. No provisions have been made by the Company with respect to the above potential claims. Claim for Loss of Business The Security Act provides that all aviation security services in the U.S. will be handled by the federal government through the TSA. As a result of the passage of the Security Act the TSA took over aviation security in the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the TSA accounted for 73% of all our consolidated revenues at that year. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 the TSA accounted for -0-% of our revenues. Our failure to be able to meet the TSA's requirements or to secure contracts from the TSA has had a material adverse effect on our business. As a foreign corporation, the Company is not eligible to bid for security service contracts with the TSA. Huntleigh's main business was providing airport security services to airlines and airports but as a result of the creation of the TSA and the requirement that the TSA take over airport security, Huntleigh has lost its principal business. Huntleigh has commenced legal action against the U.S. Government for the "Taking" of its business and to protect its rights under the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Huntleigh seeks to recover the going concern value of the lost business. The suit was brought in the U.S. Court of Claim. The Court has decided against the Company. The Company is appealing the decision. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of such claim and whether or not Huntleigh will be successful in prosecuting the same. We face significant potential liability claims. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorists attacks numerous lawsuits have been commenced against us and our U.S. subsidiary. The cases arise out of airport security services provided for United Flight 175 out of Logan Airport in Boston, Massachusetts which crashed into the World Trade Center. In addition, to the present claims additional claims may be asserted. The outcome of these or additional cases is uncertain. If there is an adverse outcome with respect to any of these claims which is not covered by insurance, then there may be a significant material adverse impact on us. -6- We have incurred major losses in recent years. We incurred net losses of approximately $14.1, $24.9, $26.0 and $18.9 million in 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve profitability. The losses were accompanied by net cash used in operating activities of $7.6, $5.2, $1.2 and $19.3 million in 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively, and at December 31, 2006 the Company had a working capital deficiency of $16.1 million. If we do not achieve new service contracts and profitability, the viability of our company will be in question and our share price will likely decline. Our auditors have expressed an opinion that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its report, our auditors have expressed an opinion that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in the accompanying audited financial statements at the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company had revenue of $60.8 million and a total loss of $14.1 million. We are reliant on loans made by our principal stockholder. Our financing activities have consisted primarily of loans from our principal stockholder. We do not have any other capital commitments or identified sources of additional capital from third parties. There is no assurance that our principal stockholder will continue making loans to us and even if loans are made, there is no assurance that the terms will be favorable to the Company. Internal Revenue Service Investigation. In December 2005 the Company's subsidiary ICTS USA, Inc. filed a refund claim with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") in an amount in excess of $2.4 million. The refund has not yet been received by the Company. The Company made a demand to the IRS for the refund. Thereafter, by letter dated August 15, 2006, the Company was advised that a criminal investigation by the United States Department of Justice, Tax Division is ongoing by a grand jury regarding possible criminal tax violations by the subsidiary for the tax years 2002 and 2003 regarding certain royalty payment made to the Company. As a result of the investigation the Company believes that the refund had been put on hold. Although it is not possible at this time to determine the outcome of this matter, should the result of the IRS investigation prove unsatisfactory to the Company, it will have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are dependent on our key personnel. Our success will largely depend on the services of our senior management and executive personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our success will also be dependent upon our ability to hire and retain additional qualified executive personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain personnel with the attributes necessary to execute our strategy. We cannot assure you that one or more of our executives will not leave our employment and either work for a competitor or otherwise compete with us. We will be dependent on major customers. Our contracts with airports or airlines may be canceled or not being renewed. Our revenues are primarily provided from services pursuant to contracts, which are cancelable on short notice at any time, with or without cause. We cannot assure you that an existing client will decide not to terminate us or fail to renew a contract. Any such termination or failure to renew a contract with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. There are two major contracts that will expire on 2008 and the Company is in progress of negotiations and participation on bids to renew the contracts. If the bid results and or the negotiations will not be in the Company's favor it will have a material affect on the Company's financial results. If our relationship with our major customers is impaired, then there may be a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our major customers consist of the major airlines servicing the United States. If such airlines encounter financial difficulty this may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to change our business strategy. As part of our new business strategy we intend to develop technological solutions and systems for the aviation security industry, develop or acquire security activities other than aviation security, invest in security related businesses, and seek other revenue producing businesses and business opportunities. -7- We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new systems or develop systems that are commercially viable. Our success in developing and marketing our systems will also depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technology changes in the industry and to integrate such changes into our systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to change or implement our business strategy. We may not have the expertise to be successful in developing our business in areas that are not related to the security industry. Our failure to change our business strategy or implement it successfully will have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete in a highly competitive industry and our competitors, who may have many more resources than us, may be more successful in developing new technology and achieving market acceptance of their products. Competition in the aviation security industry as well as in the non-security related aviation services industry is intense. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We expect that our competitors will develop and market alternative systems and technologies that may have greater functionality or be more cost effective than the services we provide or the systems that we may develop. If our competitors develop such systems we may not be able to successfully market our systems. Even if we are able to develop systems with greater functionality which are more cost effective than those developed by our competitors, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of our systems because our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources. The aviation security industry is subject to extensive government regulation, the impact of which is difficult to predict. The Security Act has had a significant negative impact on our aviation security business. In addition, our ability to successfully market new systems will be dependent upon government regulations over which we have no control. Any existing or new regulation may cause us to incur increased expenses or impose substantial liability upon us. The likelihood of such new legislation is difficult to predict. The markets for our products and services may be adversely affected by legislation designed to protect privacy rights. From time to time, personal identity data bases and technologies utilizing such data bases have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate the use of personal identity information technologies on the grounds that personal information and these technologies may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. In the event that such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for our products may be adversely affected. Our operations are dependent upon obtaining required licenses. A license to operate is required from the airport authority in the airports in which we currently operate. Our licenses are usually issued for a period of 12 months and are renewable. The loss of, or failure to obtain, a license to operate in one or more of such airports could result in the loss of or the inability to compete for contracts in the airports in which we have licenses. Dutch annual statutory accounts were not approved yet. The Company's Dutch annual accounts for the Chamber of Commerce, for the years 2006 and 2005, were not approved yet by the shareholders and were not filed to the Chamber of Commerce. The Company might be demanded to pay fines and penalties for filing late. Litigation. We are currently a plaintiff and defendant in several significant lawsuits, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our financial condition is subject to currency risk. Part of our income is derived in foreign countries. We generally retain our income in local currency at the location the funds are received. Since our financial statements are presented in United States dollars, any significant fluctuation in the currency exchange rate between such currency and the United States dollar would affect our results of operations and our financial condition. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell your shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by a large number of factors, including, among others, variations in our operating results, the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our shares, and differences between actual results of operations and the results anticipated by investors and securities analysts. Many of the factors which affect the market price of our common stock are outside of our control and may not even be directly related to us. -8- As of December 31, 2006 certain shareholders, officers and directors own approximately 67% of our shares (includes options that are in the money and immediately exercisable); their interests could conflict with yours; significant sales of shares held by them could have a negative effect on our stock price. Mr. Menachem Atzmon, a director and chairman of the board of the Company, as a representative of the Atzmon Family Trust owns or controls 53% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result of such ownership, and or control, the Atzmon Family Trust is able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares controlled by the Atzmon Family Trust or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we cannot assure you that any future dividends will be declared or paid. We are subject to the laws of The Netherlands. As a Netherlands "Naamloze Vennootschap" (N.V.) public limited company, we are subject to certain requirements not generally applicable to corporations organized under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States. Among other things, the authority to issue shares is vested in the general meeting of shareholders, except to the extent such authority to issue shares has been delegated by the shareholders or by the Articles of Association to another corporate body for a period not exceeding five years. The issuance of the common shares is generally subject to shareholder preemptive rights, except to the extent that such preemptive rights have been excluded or limited by the general meeting of shareholders (subject to a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes if less than 50% of the outstanding share capital is present or represented) or by the corporate body designated to do so by the general meeting of shareholders or the Articles of Association. Such a designation may only take place if such corporate body has also been designated to issue shares. In this regard, the general meeting of shareholders has authorized our Supervisory Board to issue any authorized and unissued shares at any time up to five years from December 6, 2006 the date of such authorization and has authorized the Supervisory Board to exclude or limit shareholder preemptive rights with respect to any issuance of common shares prior to such date. Such authorizations may be renewed by the general meeting of shareholders from time to time, for up to five years at a time. This authorization would also permit the issuance of shares in an acquisition, provided that shareholder approval is required in connection with a statutory merger (except that, in certain limited circumstances, the board of directors of a surviving company may resolve to legally merge the company). Shareholders do not have preemptive rights with respect to shares which are issued against payment other than in cash. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in The Netherlands. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, or their members, or controlling shareholders, than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Under our Articles of Association, adoption of our annual accounts by the shareholders discharges the Supervisory Board, the Management Board and their members from liability in respect of the exercise of their duties for the particular financial year, unless an explicit reservation is made by the shareholders and without prejudice to the provisions of Netherlands law, including provisions relating to liability of members of supervisory boards and management boards upon the bankruptcy of a company pursuant to the relevant provisions of The Netherlands Civil Code. However, the discharge of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board and their members by the shareholders is not absolute and will not be effective as to matters misrepresented or not disclosed to the shareholders. An individual member of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board who can prove that he is not at fault for such an omission or misrepresentation would not be liable. A U.S. judgment may not be enforceable in The Netherlands. A significant number of our activities are located outside the United States. In addition, members of the Management and Supervisory Boards and certain experts named herein are residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against such persons judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and The Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in The Netherlands. In order to enforce any United -9- States judgment obtained against us, proceedings must be initiated before a court of competent jurisdiction in The Netherlands. A court in The Netherlands will, under current practice, normally issue a judgment incorporating the judgment rendered by the United States court if it finds that (i) the United States court had jurisdiction over the original proceeding, (ii) the judgment was obtained in compliance with principles of due process, (iii) the judgment is final and conclusive and (iv) the judgment does not contravene the public policy or public order of The Netherlands. We cannot assure you that United States investors will be able to enforce any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws against us or members of the Management or Supervisory Board [or certain experts named herein] who are residents of The Netherlands or countries other than the United States. In addition, a court in The Netherlands might not impose civil liability on us or on the members of the Management or Supervisory Boards in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in The Netherlands. 