Item 1A. Risk Factors We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us and our subsidiaries, which could hurt our business. Our business operations are centered primarily in the New River Valley, consisting of Montgomery County, Virginia and surrounding counties, the cities of Roanoke, Salem and Lynchburg, Virginia and Roanoke and contiguous counties, including Bedford and Franklin, Virginia. Increased competition within this area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than us, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth, and our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. We are subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates with complete accuracy. Rate fluctuations are affected by many factors, including inflation, recession, increase in unemployment, tightening money supply and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. We expect we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. We are vulnerable to declines in interest rates because of our slightly asset-sensitive balance sheet profile, in which our assets will reprice downward at rates exceeding the repricing characteristics of liabilities. As a result, material and prolonged declines in interest rates would decrease our net interest income. Conversely, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. 30 Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; and collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, in turn reducing a client's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. A downturn in the real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in the southwestern part of Virginia. A downturn in this regional real estate market could hurt our business because of the geographic concentration within this area. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our loan portfolio and investments in marketable securities subject us to credit risk. Inherent risks in lending also include the inability to compete with other lenders, lack of control over fluctuations in interest rates and collateral values, principally real estate, and economic downturns. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: the duration of the loan; credit risks of a particular borrower; changes in economic or industry conditions; and in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. However, there is no precise method of predicting credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for 31 loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal level. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in our business can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to serve customers better and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to keep pace successfully with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 