ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In light of the important factors that can materially affect results, including but not limited to those set forth in this paragraph and below, the inclusion of forward-looking information herein should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved; we may encounter competitive, technological, financial, economic and business challenges making it more difficult than expected to continue to sell our products and services; we may be unable to retain existing key sales, technical and management personnel; there may be other material adverse changes in the information technology industry or the economy, or in our operations or business; and any or all of these factors may affect our ability to continue our current sales rate or may result in lower sales volume than currently experienced. Certain important factors affecting the forward-looking statements made herein include, but are not limited to: • stagnate sales growth in the last five years; • limited availability of alternative credit facilities; • low margin products business; and • concentration of product and service sales in several major customers. Assumptions relating to budgeting, marketing, and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The reader is therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any statements to reflect new information or future events or developments. The reader should carefully consider the following risks. In addition, keep in mind that the risks described below are not the only risks faced. The risks described below are only the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known, or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, may also impair business operations. THERE IS A RISK WE COULD LOSE OUR ASSET BASED FINANCING LINE WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO READILY REPLACE IT Our business requires significant capital to finance accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, product inventories. In order to obtain necessary working capital, we rely primarily on a line of credit that is collateralized by substantially all of our assets. As a result, the amount of credit available to us may be adversely affected by numerous factors beyond our control, such as delays in collection or deterioration in the quality of our accounts receivable, economic trends in the information technology industry, reduction in interest-free flooring periods provided by various manufacturers and the lending policies of our creditors. Any decrease or material limitation on the amount of capital available to us under our line of credit and other financing arrangements, particularly our interest-free flooring, may limit our ability to fill existing sales orders or expand our sales levels and, therefore, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on the availability of accounts receivable financing on reasonable terms and at levels that are high relative to our equity base in order to maintain and increase our sales. 10 Our financing agreement contains various liquidity debt covenants that must be met each quarter. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those debt covenants and failure to do so would place us under default and could cause us to lose our financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, as there are a very limited number of asset-based lenders that service our industry. Our inability to have continuous access to such financing at reasonable costs could materially adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ THERE IS RISK THAT WE COULD LOSE A LARGE CUSTOMER WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO FIND A READY REPLACEMENT For fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, no one customer accounted for 10% or more of our total net sales. However, our sales do tend to be concentrated in a relatively few accounts with our top five customers in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 accounting for an aggregate of 38.9%, 27.1% and 31.9%, respectively, of total net sales and our top twenty-five customers representing an aggregate of 63.8%, 59.7% and 63.4%, respectively, of total net sales. For fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, no one customer accounted for 10% or more of our total product or service sales, however, seven large customers accounted for an aggregate of 47.5%, 57.1% and 50.5%, respectively, of total service sales. Our contracts for the provision of products or services are generally non-exclusive agreements that are terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice. Either the loss of any large customer, or the failure of any large customer to pay its accounts receivable on a timely basis, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by any large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. OUR ACQUISITION OF A SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN A PAKISTANI CORPORATION EXPOSES US TO FOREIGN OPERATIONAL RISKS With our acquisition of a majority interest in Ovex, a Pakistani corporation, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on asset transfers, changes in foreign regulations and political turmoil, any or all of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we have relocated many of our “back-office” functions to Ovex including, among others, customer support, purchasing, credit and collections, accounts payable, accounting and other administrative and support functions. We established both voice and data communications between our corporate headquarters in El Segundo, California and Pakistan. However, there can be no assurance that these lines of communication will not be interrupted. Should we have interruptions with our communications to Pakistan, any such interruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. OUR LOW MARGINS EXPOSE US TO RISKS FROM MINOR ADVERSITIES Our overall gross profit percentages for the past three fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were 12.5%, 12.2%, and 10.7%, respectively, with gross margin from product sales in such fiscal years being 8.4%, 8.3% and 7.5%, respectively. Our gross profit margins on product and software sales are low compared to many other resellers of information technology products and have continued to remain low. Given the significant levels of competition that characterize the reseller market, as well as the lower gross profit margins that we generate as a result of our reliance on purchasing information technology products from our suppliers, it is unlikely that we will be able to increase product gross profit margins appreciably in our core business of reselling information technology products. Moreover, in order to attract and retain many of our larger customers, we frequently must agree to pricing and maximum allowable mark-downs that serve to limit the profitability of product sales to such customers. Accordingly, to the extent that our sales to such customers increase, our gross profit margins may be reduced, and therefore any future increases in net income will have to be derived from net sales growth, effective expansion into higher margin business segments or a reduction in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, none of which can be assured. Furthermore, low gross profit margins increase the sensitivity of our business to increases in costs of financing, because financing costs to carry a receivable can be relatively high compared to the low dollar amount of gross profit on the sale underlying the receivable itself. Low gross profit margins also increase the sensitivity of the business to any increase in product returns and bad debt write-offs, as the impact resulting from the inability to collect the full amount for products sold will be relatively high compared to the low amount of gross profit on the sale of such product. Any failure by us to maintain our gross profit margins and sales levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. COSTS AND OTHER FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH PENDING OR FUTURE LITIGATION COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. 11 We at times receive claims and become subject to litigation, including claims related to customers, stockholders, acquisitions, employment, intellectual property, trade secrets and other commercial litigation related to the conduct of our business. Additionally, we may at times institute legal proceedings against third parties to protect our interests. Any litigation in which we are a named party could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In connection with any such litigation, we may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business. We cannot determine with any certainty the costs or outcome of pending or future litigation. Any such litigation may materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. THERE ARE RISKS IN CONDUCTING OUR DAILY BUSINESS PLANS AND STRATEGY For our first five full fiscal years since inception, we experienced rapid growth in net sales, employees and branch offices leading to peak net sales of $668.3 million in fiscal year 1999 from a base of $110.0 million in fiscal year 1994. Since fiscal year 1999 we have experienced a contraction in net sales reaching a low in net sales of $257.0 million in fiscal year 2002, or a compounded annual decline rate of 27% for the three year period. Since 2002, we have seen a gradual increase in net sales to the $347.1 million reached in fiscal year 2007, which is a compounded annual growth rate of 3.7% over such five-year period. The effort to increase net sales or to supplement the loss of net sales with higher margin products or services has and will continue to challenge our management, operational and financial resources. To execute our growth strategy, we expect to require the addition of new management personnel, including sales and technical services personnel, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Our ability to manage effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and sales systems at both the national and local level, to develop the skills of our managers and supervisors and to hire, train, motivate, retain and effectively manage our employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such an effort, and the failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. WITH OUR FAST CHANGING INDUSTRY EVOLUTION WE RISK BEING OUTMODED OR EXCLUDED FROM THE DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL The personal computer industry is undergoing significant change. In addition, a number of alternative cost-effective channels of distribution have developed in the industry, such as the Internet, computer superstores, consumer electronic and office supply superstores, national direct marketers and mass merchants. Computer resellers are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other resellers and/or direct marketers to achieve economies of scale and increased efficiency. The current industry reconfiguration and the trend towards consolidation could cause the industry to become even more competitive, further increase pricing pressures and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins or to increase or maintain the same level of net sales or gross profit. Declining prices, resulting in part from technological changes, may require us to sell a greater number of products to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit. Such a trend could make it more difficult for us to continue to increase our net sales and earnings growth. In addition, growth in the personal computer market has slowed. If the growth rate of the personal computer market were to further decrease, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The segment of the information technology industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with a large number and wide variety of resellers and providers of information technology products and services, including: • traditional personal computer retailers, • computer superstores, • consumer electronics and office supply superstores, • mass merchandisers, • corporate resellers, • value-added resellers, • specialty retailers, • distributors, • franchisers, • mail-order and web-order companies, • national computer retailers, • service-only providers, and • manufacturers that have their own direct marketing operations to end-users. 12 Many of these companies compete principally on the basis of price and may have lower costs than us, which allow them to offer the same products and services at lower prices. Many of our competitors are larger, have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and offer a broader range of value-added services than we do. We compete with, among others, CompuCom Systems, Inc., Dell, Gateway, Pomeroy IT Solutions, Inc., CDW Corporation, IBM, HP, Insight Enterprises, Inc., PC Mall, Inc., GTSI Corp., Zones, Inc., PC Connection, Inc., and certain distributors. We expect to face additional competition from new market entrants in the future. Competitive factors include price, service and support, the variety of products and value-added services offered, and marketing and sales capabilities. While we believe that we compete successfully with respect to most, if not all of these factors, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so in the future. The information technology industry has come to be characterized by aggressive price-cutting and we expect pricing pressures will continue in the foreseeable future. In addition, the information technology products industry is characterized by abrupt changes in technology and associated inventory and product obsolescence, rapid changes in consumer preferences, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. We will need to continue to provide competitive prices, superior product selection and quick delivery response time in addition to developing a core competency in performing value-added services in order to remain competitive. If we were to fail to compete favorably with respect to any of these factors, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. See ‘‘Business—Competition.’’ WE RISK DEPENDING ON A FEW DISTRIBUTORS AND MANUFACTURERS WHO COULD COMPETE WITH US OR LIMIT OUR ACCESS TO THEIR PRODUCT LINE A key element of our past success and future business strategy involves the maintaining of alliances with certain key suppliers of information technology products and services, including, Tech Data, Microsoft, Ingram Micro, Synnex, and Dell. These alliances enable us to make available to our customers a wide selection of products without subjecting us to many of the costs and risks associated with maintaining large amounts of inventory. Products and services purchased from those five suppliers, in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 accounted for 57%, 67% and 76% of our aggregate purchases. Furthermore, we compete with certain suppliers for many of the same customers. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any such allied distributor will not use its position as a key supplier to pressure us from directly competing with them. Substantially all of our contracts with our suppliers are terminable by either party upon 30 days notice or less and several contain minimum purchase volume requirements as a condition to providing discounts to us. The termination or interruption of our relationships with any of the suppliers, modification of the terms or discontinuance of agreements with any of the suppliers, failure to meet minimum purchase volume requirements, or the failure to maintain a good working relationship with any significant new distributor of information technology products could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See ‘‘Business—Getting Product to the Customer.’’ Certain of the products we offer are subject to manufacturer allocations, which limit the number of units of such products available to the suppliers, which in turn may limit the number of units available to us for resale to our customers. Because of these limitations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offer popular new products or product enhancements to our customers in sufficient quantity or in a timely manner to meet demand. In order to offer the products of most manufacturers, we are required to obtain authorizations from such manufacturers to act as a reseller of such products, which authorizations may be terminated at the discretion of the suppliers. As well, certain manufacturers provide us with substantial incentives in the form of allowances, training, financing, rebates, discounts, credits and cooperative advertising, which incentives directly affect our operating income. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive such incentives and authorizations in the future and any reduction in these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain authorizations to offer products, directly or indirectly, from new or existing manufacturers. Termination of our rights to act as a reseller of the products of one or more significant manufacturers or our failure to gain sufficient access to such new products or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Evolution of the distribution process in the information technology industry has put pressure on gross profit margins, and has adversely affected a number of distributors of information technology products, including certain suppliers. There can be no assurance that the continuing evolution of the information technology industry will not further adversely affect our distributors. Because our overall business strategy depends on our relationships with our suppliers, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows would be materially adversely affected in the event that distributors in general and suppliers in particular continue to suffer adverse consequences due to ongoing changes in the information technology industry. There has been a consolidation trend in the information technology industry, including consolidation among distributors of information technology products. Because our business model is dependent upon the availability of a number of information technology product distributors, any further consolidation would result in fewer distributors available to supply products to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 WE HAVE THE RISK OF LOSING OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER KEY PERSONNEL UPON WHOM WE DEPEND We believe that our success has been and will continue to be dependent on the services and efforts of our existing senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of any of our existing senior management and other key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our success and plans for future growth also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in all areas of our business, including application development, sales and technical services. Competition for qualified personnel in the information technology industry is intense, and although we believe that we have thus far been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel for our business, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. WE RISK FAILURE TO INTEGRATE ACQUISITIONS AND/OR INVESTMENTS INTO OUR BUSINESS THAT COULD CAUSE FUTURE LOSSES One element of our growth strategy may include continuing to expand our business through strategic acquisitions and investments in complementary businesses. To date, we have made several such acquisitions and investments. However, we do not have significant acquisition or investment experience, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, complete acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: • failure to achieve anticipated operating results, • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services, products, vendor agreements, and personnel of the acquired company, • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business concerns, • entry into markets in which we have little or no prior experience, and • the potential loss of key employees, customers, or contracts of the acquired company. Acquisitions and investments could also conflict with restrictions in our agreements with existing or future lenders, distributors or manufacturers. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition or investment candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition or investment will be completed or successfully integrated. Failure to successfully manage potential acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, or failure of any of our investments that are subject to consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. WE RISK BUSINESS INTERRUPTION FROM OUR DEPENDENCE ON CENTRALIZED OPERATIONS We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. As a result, a substantial disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our success is largely dependent on the accuracy, quality and utilization of the information generated by our information systems, which are primarily based in El Segundo and Rancho Cucamonga, California. Repairs, replacement, relocation or a substantial interruption in these systems or in our telephone or data communications systems, servers or power could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Although we have business interruption insurance, an uninsurable loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our current use of a single configuration facility in Rancho Cucamonga, California also makes us more vulnerable to dramatic changes in freight rates than a competitor with multiple, geographically dispersed sites. Losses in excess of insurance coverage, an uninsurable loss, or change in freight rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 14 WITH THE 40% CONCENTRATION OF OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK HELD BY A SMALL GROUP OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, FAMILY MEMBERS AND AN OUTSIDE PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDER THERE ARE RISKS THAT THEY CAN EXERT SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER CORPORATE MATTERS The directors, executive officers, family members and a significant outside stockholder of En Pointe and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock as of September 30, 2007. As a result, these stockholders acting together will be able to exert considerable influence over the election of our directors and the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Additionally, the directors and executive officers have significant influence over the policies and operations of our management and the conduct of our business. Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of En Pointe and consequently could affect the market price of our common stock. THERE ARE RISKS THAT OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS CAN VARY FROM PAST RESULTS AND BECOME VOLATILE AND UNPREDICTABLE Our quarterly net sales and operating results may vary significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: • the demand for information technology products and value-added services; • adoption of internet commerce models; • introduction of new hardware and software technologies; • introduction of new value-added services by us and our competitors; • changes in manufacturers’ prices or price protection policies; • changes in shipping rates; • disruption of warehousing or shipping channels; • changes in the level of operating expenses, including costs from turnover of sales personnel; • the timing of major marketing or other service projects; • product supply shortages; • inventory adjustments; • changes in product mix; • entry into new geographic markets; • the timing and integration of acquisitions or investments; • difficulty in managing margins; • the loss of significant customer contracts; • the necessity to write-off a significant amount of accounts receivable or inventory; and • general competitive and economic conditions. In addition, a substantial portion of our net sales in each quarter results from orders booked in such quarter. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. As has occurred in the past it is possible that in future periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of the public and investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.’’ OUR STOCK TENDS TO BE VOLATILE WITH LARGE PERCENTAGE PRICE MOVES WHICH CAN EXPOSE INVESTORS TO UNANTICIPATED LOSSES Factors such as the announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors, quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, governmental regulatory action, general trends and market conditions in the information technology industry, as well as other factors, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, trading volumes in our common stock has been low historically and could exacerbate price fluctuations in the common stock. Further, the stock market has recently and in other periods experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. See ‘‘Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.’’ 15 IF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS PROVE TO BE INEFFECTIVE THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT INVESTORS’ CONFIDENCE IN OUR COMPANY AND CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DROP Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The Nasdaq Stock Market, or the Nasdaq, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are undergoing an evaluation of our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We are also in the process of performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by the extended September 30, 2008 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in our company, and could cause our stock price to fall. IF PREFERRED STOCK IS ISSUED AS AN ANTI-TAKEOVER MEASURE, THERE IS A RISK THAT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Further, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of En Pointe without action by our stockholders, and therefore could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. THERE ARE RISKS OUTSIDE OF OUR CONTROL OF UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS Revenue growth depends on the overall demand for information technology spending. While economy in the United States appears to be stable, there can be no assurance that stability will continue. Any downturn in the United States’ economy may result in cutbacks by customers in the purchase of information technology products and services, postponed or canceled orders, longer sales cycles and lower average selling prices. To the extent that a downturn occurs, we believe demand for our products and services, and therefore future revenues, could be further adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 