1A. Risk Factors Because of our significant concentration in MPL insurance, our profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments and cyclical changes in that industry. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our involvement in the MPL insurance industry. Because of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the business or economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the MPL insurance industry, broadly or in our markets, could have a negative effect on our profitability and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to more diversified companies. The MPL insurance industry historically is cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. During 2006 and 2007, premium rates declined in our core Florida market, primarily as a result of improved claim trends. We cannot predict how market conditions will continue to change, or the manner in which, or the extent to which, any such changes may adversely impact our profitability. We anticipate, however, that the current soft market conditions will continue at least through 2008. Form 10-K: 11 FPIC Insurance Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents We operate in a competitive environment. We compete with specialty insurers and self-insurance entities whose activities are limited to regional and local markets, as well as other large national property and casualty insurance companies that write MPL insurance. Our competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources and higher financial strength ratings than we have and companies, particularly mutual insurers, reciprocals or trusts, that may have lower return on capital objectives than we have. We also face competition from other insurance companies for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers, on whose services we depend in marketing our insurance products. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business at adequate prices and reduce our profits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our geographic concentration means that our performance may be affected by economic, regulatory and demographic conditions of states in which we operate. Our business is affected by general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, which in turn are affected by national general economic conditions. Because our business is concentrated in a limited number of markets, particularly Florida, adverse developments that are limited to a geographic area in which we do business may have a disproportionately greater affect on us than they would have if we did business in markets outside that particular geographic area. Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to price our products accordingly. The nature of the insurance business is such that the pricing must be determined before the underlying costs are fully known. This requires significant reliance on estimates and assumptions in setting prices. If we fail to assess accurately the risks that we assume, we may fail to charge adequate premium rates, which could reduce income and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to assess our policyholder risks and to price our products accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: · Competition from other providers of MPL insurance; · Price regulation by domiciliary insurance departments; · Selection and implementation of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; · Availability of sufficient reliable data; · Uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions generally; · Incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; · Our ability to predict policyholder retention, investment yields and the duration of our liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses (“LAE”) accurately; and · Unanticipated court decisions or legislation. These risks and uncertainties could cause us to underprice our policies, which would negatively affect our results of operations, or to overprice our policies, which could reduce our competitiveness. Either event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Form 10-K: 12 FPIC Insurance Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Our results and financial condition may be affected by our failure to establish adequate loss and LAE reserves. Our liability for losses and LAE (also referred to as our loss and LAE reserves) is our largest liability and represents the financial statement item most sensitive to estimation and judgment. In developing our estimates of losses and LAE, we utilize actuarial projection techniques based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, historical loss experience data and estimates of anticipated trends. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments, changes in operations and anticipated trends, constitutes an appropriate basis for predicting future events. While we believe that our loss and LAE reserves are appropriate, to the extent that such reserves prove to be inadequate or excessive in the future, we would adjust them and incur a charge or credit to earnings, as the case may be, in the period the reserves are adjusted. Any such adjustment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information on our loss and LAE reserves, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The unpredictability of court decisions may expose us to claims for extra-contractual obligations and losses in excess of policy limits and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations if claims of this type exceed our reinsurance coverage. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by court decisions that expand the liability on our policies after they have been issued and priced or by a judicial body’s decision to accelerate the resolution of claims through an expedited court calendar, thereby reducing the amount of investment income we would have earned on related investments. Additionally, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of our insureds could require us to pay large sums of money in excess of our reserved amounts and also may increase our exposure to losses in excess of our policy limits. Our policy to aggressively litigate claims made against our insureds that we consider unwarranted or claims where reasonable settlement cannot be achieved may increase the risk that we may be required to make such payments. Within the Florida market for MPL insurance, the magnitude of payments for extra-contractual liability and losses in excess of policy limits has increased and is expected to continue to be a significant source of uncertainty. An award against us for extra-contractual liability or losses in excess of policy limits in an amount in excess of the reinsurance coverage we maintain for such liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to assessment by state financial guaranty associations. State insurance guaranty associations or other insurance regulatory bodies may assess us, generally on the basis of insurance written in their states, for the purposes of funding the unpaid claims and policyholder benefits of insolvent insurers or to cover catastrophes in their states. In 2006 and 2007, we were assessed $9.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively, by the Florida OIR at the request of the Florida Insurance Guaranty Association with respect to the insolvency of the insurance subsidiaries of Poe Financial Group. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional assessments with respect to the Poe Financial Group or other insolvencies. Although these assessments are generally passed on to our policyholders, such additional assessments or assessments related to other property and casualty insurers that may become insolvent because of hurricane activity or otherwise, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently not aware of the need for additional assessments. Form 10-K: 13 FPIC Insurance Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Our revenues may fluctuate with interest rates, investment results and developments in the securities markets. We maintain an investment portfolio substantially comprised of fixed income securities. We rely on the investment income produced by our investment portfolio to contribute to our profitability. The fair market value of our fixed income securities and their carrying values can fluctuate depending on changes in financial and credit markets, interest rates and credit quality. Generally, the fair market value of fixed income securities will increase or decrease in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates, while net investment income earned from fixed income securities will generally follow increases or decreases in interest rates over time. Future changes in interest rates and credit quality may result in fluctuations in the income derived from, the valuation of, and in the case of declines in credit quality, payment defaults on, our fixed income securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our investment portfolio is also subject to credit and cash flow risk, including risks associated with our investments in asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities. An investment has cash flow or prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or because of later than anticipated repayments due to rising interest rates. Our exposure to credit risk includes a limited exposure to sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgages, which comprise approximately 1 percent of our total fixed income investment portfolio and approximately 2 percent of shareholder’s equity as of December 31, 2007. At that date, all of these securities had a Standard & Poor’s credit rating of AAA. Nevertheless, while our exposure to sub-prime mortgage investments is not significant to our total investment portfolio, if the residential real estate market continues to decline and / or the decline expands beyond the U.S. sub-prime residential mortgage market, such events could ultimately have an impact on our fixed income portfolio and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are heavily regulated by the states in which we operate and are subject to legislative initiatives and, indirectly, to pressure from consumer groups, which may affect the adequacy of our premium rates, and we may be limited in the way we operate. We are subject to extensive regulation by the insurance regulatory agencies in each state in which we operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of the policyholders rather than shareholders. In addition to restricting the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made by our insurance subsidiaries, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to, among other things: · Rates charged to insurance customers; · Permitted investments and practices; · Trade practices; · Licensing requirements; and · Minimum capital and surplus requirements. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on premium rate changes or other actions that we may desire to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Our premium rates are also subject to legislative action and, indirectly, to pressure from consumer groups. Form 10-K: 14 FPIC Insurance Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents The passage of additional tort reforms and the subsequent review of such reforms by the courts could have a material impact on our operations. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by imposing one or more limitations, including, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim, and/or limiting venue or court selection. Certain states in which we do business have enacted tort reform legislation, including Florida, which has enacted significant MPL insurance reforms since 2003. While the effects of tort reform would appear to be beneficial to our business generally, there can be no assurance that such reforms will be effective or ultimately upheld by the courts in the various states if challenged. Further, if tort reforms are effective, the business of providing MPL insurance may become more attractive, thereby causing an increase in competition in our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that the benefits of tort reform will not be accompanied by regulatory actions by state insurance authorities or legislative actions that may be detrimental to our business such as expanded coverage requirements and premium rate limitations or rollbacks. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts or at acceptable rates. If we were unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we were unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures we may have to limit the amount of risk we write. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay us in a timely fashion, if at all. In addition, we remain primarily liable to our insureds, whether our reinsurers pay or not, and could therefore experience losses. We transfer a portion of the risk we have assumed under our insurance policies to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent of the risk transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. If our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow would be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key employees. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our senior management and other key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or any other key employee, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating, it may be more difficult for us to write new business or renew our existing business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade or withdrawal of any such rating could adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies and inhibit us from competing effectively. In addition, in the competitive market for our insurance products competitors with higher financial strength ratings might have a competitive advantage over us. Form 10-K: 15 FPIC Insurance Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments – None Item 