ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. Global economic conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our revenues and harm our business. Economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries and have caused a negative impact on the specific segments and markets in which we operate. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly exposed to these adverse changes in general economic conditions, which can result in reductions in capital expenditures by end-user customers for our products, longer sales cycles, the deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased competition. These factors have adversely impacted our operating results in prior periods, including most recently in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Despite some recent signs of stabilization, these factors have created uncertainty and unpredictability and caused us to continue to be cautious about our future outlook. The global recession, the continuing credit crisis that has affected worldwide financial markets, the extraordinary volatility in the stock markets, other negative macroeconomic and global recessionary factors, and uncertainty or further weakening in key vertical or geographic markets, could continue to negatively impact technology spending for our products and services and may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity levels in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity, foreign currency and fixed income markets. 14 Table of Contents These economic conditions negatively impact our business, particularly our future revenue potential, losses on investments and the collectability of our accounts receivable, by causing the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services, customer or partner insolvencies or bankruptcies, decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions resulting in delays in their purchasing decisions, decreased customer demand or demand for lower-end products, and decreased customer ability to pay their obligations when they become due to us. For example, our partner Nortel’s bankruptcy filing in January 2009 negatively impacted our revenues as our level of business with Nortel has been materially lower than that of historical levels. We believe our voice communications products are more susceptible to general economic conditions than our other products, which has led to longer sales cycles for our voice products and negative year-over-year growth of revenues in the voice product line. In particular, while we believe that our video product lines may be better able to sustain the impact of current economic conditions and recessionary and other factors, our voice products do not provide the same return on investment profile that we believe our video products provide to customers who are curtailing travel and other related expenditures in a down economy, making our voice products more susceptible to the current economic downturn. Further, although we believe our video communications products offer a rapid return on investment, tightened corporate budgets and capital expenditures in this economic environment will likely continue to negatively impact our video communications product revenues, as was the case in 2009. Despite recent signs of stabilization, we continue to be cautious about our future outlook in light of the global economic climate. Economic pressures have also caused us to carefully control our expenses through programs such as headcount reductions, reduced discretionary spending, deferral of nonessential projects, suspension of annual salary merit increases, and encouraging paid time-off programs. Although we believe such measures to be prudent given the economic outlook, certain of these initiatives may cause us to underspend in areas later determined to be essential to the future growth of the business, negatively impact short- and long-term research and development and go-to-market productivity, or negatively impact employee morale and retention and may, as a result, adversely impact our future ability to effectively compete once economic conditions improve. Further, the tightening of our budgets and the cost control measures being taken by us in this period of economic downturn have caused us to defer infrastructure improvement projects, such as software upgrades, which may handicap the growth of our business in future periods. These actions are not necessarily sustainable in the long term, and we will need to increase spending in order to maintain and build the business in future periods, which among other factors may negatively impact our operating margins, particularly the reinstatement of merit increases, which is currently planned for the third quarter of 2010 and bonus programs, which we currently plan to phase in commencing in the second quarter of 2010, and the elimination of encouraged paid time-off programs. If we fail to compete successfully domestically and internationally, our business and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Competition that we face in our markets is intense and, given the recently announced acquisition of Tandberg by Cisco Systems, it will likely intensify and place increased pressure on average selling prices for our products. Potentially lower average selling prices for our products will correspondingly have a negative impact on our revenues and gross margins. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include the ability to: • provide and sell a broad range of products and services that are responsive to changing technology and changing customer requirements and our ability to bring such products to market more rapidly than our competitors do; • appropriately and competitively price our products; • introduce new products; • reduce production costs; 15 Table of Contents • provide value-added features and functionality; • successfully integrate our products with, and operate our products on, existing customer platforms; • gain market presence and brand recognition; and • extend credit to our partners. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved performance characteristics. New product introductions by our current or future competitors, or our delay in bringing new products to market to compete with competitive products, could cause a significant decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products and future products. We believe that the possible effects from ongoing competition may be a reduction in the prices of our products and our competitors’ products, the introduction of additional lower priced competitive products or the introduction of new products or product platforms that render our existing products or technologies obsolete. For example, video network systems product revenues declined sequentially in the first and second quarters of 2007 and again in the first and second quarters of 2008, and could decline again in the future. Revenues relating to new product offerings may also be unpredictable. For instance, although we initially saw strong sales of our Polycom CX5000 Unified Conference Station in 2009, there can be no assurance that revenue will remain at those levels or grow in future quarters. Competition that we face in certain of our international markets is different than that we face in North America. We have noted additional competitors and increased pricing pressures in China, India and other parts of Asia. If we are unable to compete effectively in these regions in terms of price, technology, product offerings or marketing strategies, our overall financial results may suffer. Competition in each of our markets is intense, particularly in light of increased consolidation in our industry, and our inability to compete effectively in any of these markets could negatively affect our results of operations. We face significant competition in the video communications solutions industry. For our video conferencing end points, our major competitors include Tandberg (which is being acquired by Cisco Systems), Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard and a number of other companies including Aethra (which is being acquired by RADVISION), Huawei, LifeSize (which was acquired by Logitech in December 2009), as well as various smaller or new industry entrants. We face competition for sales of our RPX and TPX telepresence solutions and related services from Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Tandberg, Teleris and others. Some of these companies have substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products, which may result in our having to increase our spending on marketing, and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies due to their size. Direct competition for telepresence product sales against larger competitors like Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard may also result in increased downward pressure on our product prices, as well as cause us to invest more in sales and marketing in order to compete effectively. Sales of our RPX and TPX products were lower in 2009 than in 2008 which we believe may have been caused by increased competition from companies with greater resources than us, as well as new competitive products entering the marketplace, which trend may continue in future quarters, potentially adversely affecting our revenues from such product lines. In addition, with the increasing market acceptance of video communications solutions, other established or new companies may develop or market products competitive with our video conferencing products, including companies with greater financial and other resources, greater brand recognition or greater access to top-level executives than we have, or may partner with companies which have more substantial resources and production, sales, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products and to bring their products to market or respond to changing technologies more rapidly than we can, or 16 Table of Contents that may be more adept in responding to rapidly changing market conditions or changing technologies than we are. These factors could negatively impact our video revenues as customers assess such new technologies or wait to make purchases until sales prices for such next generation products fall. Conversely, new product adoption may grow at such rates that we are unable to keep up with increasing demand due to our size, resources, need to establish new partnerships, or other factors. Also, strategic partnerships and acquisitions are regularly being formed and announced by our competitors, which may increase competition and result in increased downward pressure on our product prices. For instance, in October 2009, Cisco Systems announced its planned acquisition of Tandberg, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our future results of operations, possibly materially. Upon the completion of the planned acquisition, we will have to compete with a larger combined company with significantly greater financial and sales and marketing resources than ours, an extensive channel network and with a newly acquired expanded video communications solutions product line. This new product line may be sold in conjunction with Cisco Systems’ proprietary network equipment and technology as a complete solution, making it more difficult for us to compete against them or to ascertain pricing on competitive products. In addition, Cisco Systems, after it completes its acquisition of Tandberg, may use its dominance in network equipment to foreclose competition in the telepresence and/or videoconferencing equipment market. Post-acquisition, Cisco Systems may make it more difficult, more expensive, or otherwise less attractive to choose our telepresence and/or videoconferencing products in a Cisco Systems network environment. Cisco Systems may also preclude our competitive products from being fully interoperable with Cisco Systems endpoints, video infrastructure and/or network products. Further, the acquisition of privately-held LifeSize by Logitech in December 2009 will likely result in increased competition and pricing pressure for our video communications solutions products, which could also negatively impact our future results of operations, as the newly-combined entity will have greater financial resources, deeper mass market sales channels and greater pricing flexibility than LifeSize did as a standalone entity. We have lost group video conferencing sales opportunities to our competitors, including Tandberg, and also to LifeSize and competitors in China who sell at lower price points than we do. We expect to continue to face stiff competition, and our competitors may gain market share from us, due in part to their strategic relationships and their latest product offerings. We also believe we will face increasing competition from alternative video communications solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies. Further, the commoditization of certain video conferencing products could lead to the availability of alternative, lower-cost video conferencing products than ours and, accordingly, drive down our sales prices and negatively impact our revenues. Our video communications solutions network systems products experience significant direct competition from Tandberg, RADVISION, Cisco Systems, which resells RADVISION’s products, Huawei, and various smaller or new industry entrants. Tandberg’s acquisition of Codian strengthened their infrastructure product offerings and continues to result in increased competition from Tandberg against our total video communications solutions offering, and has negatively impacted our video communications solutions revenues, as well as our market position with respect to video conferencing and network systems offerings. Our video communications solutions network systems product revenues declined sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2006 as well as in the first and second quarters of 2007 and the first and second quarters of 2008 as a result of sales lost to competitors as well as lower average selling prices due in part to competitive pressures. Further, we launched our next generation video network system platform (RMX 2000®) in 2007 and introduced enhancements to that platform in 2009 with the introduction of our RMX 2000® V4.0 and RMX 4000, and we intend to launch new network systems product offerings, including enhancements to existing products, in the future. These new product offerings may be delayed or may not have as much of a positive impact on our video communications solutions revenues as we anticipate. As a result, we may continue to lose market share with respect to our video communications solutions network systems products, as we have experienced in previous quarters. 17 Table of Contents The market for voice communications equipment, including voice conferencing and desktop equipment, and wireless voice devices is highly competitive and also subject to rapid technological change, regulatory developments and emerging industry standards. We expect competition to persist and increase in the future in this area. Further, we believe that the market for voice communication products may be more sensitive to economic conditions than our video communications solutions products as we have seen recently. Although we saw some stabilization in our voice communications business in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, it is too early to predict whether or not this business will continue to recover in future quarters. In voice communications solutions, our major conference phone competitors include ClearOne Communications, Konftel, Mitel, Yamaha and other companies that offer lower cost, full-duplex speakerphones. Furthermore, all major telephony manufacturers produce hands-free speakerphone units that cost less than our voice communications products. Our major VoIP desktop competitors include Aastra, LG Nortel, Linksys, a division of Cisco Systems, Snom and Thompson, in addition to several low cost manufacturers in Asia and Europe that are emerging. We have also recently introduced a range of high definition VoIP devices from personal speakerphones to executive desktop devices enabling integration with Microsoft Office Communications Server 2007. Some of these products will directly compete with products offered by LG Nortel. In addition, there are PBX and IP Call Manager manufacturers that compete with standards based IP products including Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Mitel, and Siemens. A significant portion of our VoIP desktop product revenues come from Internet Telephony Service Providers (or ITSPs) that use a hosted call server platform from one business partner. If that partner were to be acquired by a competitor, or if potential customers for our VoIP desktop products use or move to other platforms, our VoIP desktop revenues could suffer, possibly materially. Our VoIP product sales may also be negatively impacted by the anticipated, increased market traction of sales by Skype to business consumers. With respect to our wireless product lines, our competitors include Aastra, Hitachi Cable and Linksys for small business and entry-level products. Our KIRK wireless products compete with offerings from DECT providers such as Aastra, Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson and Siemens. Our SpectraLink wireless products compete with proprietary and Wi-Fi-based products from Ascom, Cisco Systems, Motorola, Siemens and Vocera. The overall market in the wireless segment is highly competitive, and many of such competitors may have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, mature DECT standard-based products previously marketed by large telecom companies in markets outside the U.S. are being introduced in the U.S., which may be lower-priced than our SpectraLink and KIRK offerings. Enterprise adoption of standards for wireless LAN and VoIP may lead to the commoditization of wireless telephone technology and the availability of low-cost alternative products. Other purchasers may prefer to buy their wireless telephone systems from a single source provider of wireless local area networks, or LANs, such as Cisco Systems, who provides wireless infrastructure and wireless telephones. For our services business, we do not currently experience any significant competition from any third party maintenance and support companies, although many of our competitors in our various product lines offer strong service offerings, particularly in overseas markets. We also may not be as well-situated as these competitors to scale and to compete as effectively in our services business, particularly in the international arena. Third party maintenance companies may become a threat to our service base in the future, as the industry grows and as they look at our products as potential third party service revenue streams, in addition to trying to provide one service solution to their customers. In addition, as we expand our professional services offerings, we may compete more directly with system integrators. It is possible that we will see increased competition in all of our product lines to the extent that one or more of our competitors join together either through mutual agreement or acquisitions to form new partnerships to compete against us, such as the recently announced acquisition of Tandberg by Cisco Systems. Rumored or 18 Table of Contents actual consolidation of our partners and competitors can cause uncertainty and disruption to our business and can cause our stock price to fluctuate. Also, these competitors, either on a stand-alone basis or on a combined basis, could have more substantial financial resources and production, sales, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products. Further, the economic downturn may incent partners of ours with whom we do not currently compete to become competitors of ours as a means of growing their business in a difficult economic environment. Our plans to invest in our business for further growth have caused, and may continue to cause, a negative impact on our stock price and may not ultimately lead to our intended results. We recently announced a strategic investment plan that included several key initiatives designed to capture growth in the unified collaboration market in which we operate. These include enhancements to our go-to-market capability; building strategic partnerships with companies such as Avaya, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft and others; focusing on service providers’ enhanced sell-through, as well as specific products and services to support their growing offerings in the managed and hosted space; increased innovation surrounding our immersive telepresence products; and expansion of our professional services practice. Over the next few quarters, we plan to significantly increase our spending levels in sales and marketing and, to a lesser extent, research and development and general and administrative areas, to support these key initiatives. This increased investment level will lower profits in the short-term and is designed to yield increased growth in both our revenues and profitability in the future. The results of these investments are expected, in the short-term, to negatively impact our stock price as our profitability will not be at the level as originally anticipated by our investors. Further, these investments may not result in the revenue and profitability growth that these investments are designed to yield. We may have also underestimated the required investment that each of these initiatives requires in order to for us to achieve the anticipated results. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and are not necessarily a good indicator of future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are out of our control or can be difficult to predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the impact of global economic conditions, including the restricted credit environment impacting the credit of our partners and end user customers, and the spread of these conditions and recessionary factors to other countries, which has impacted, and may continue to impact, our global financial performance in future quarters; • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, principally due to (i) the changing global economic environment, (ii) increased competition as we have seen in Asia, particularly in China and India, across all product lines and globally with respect to video communications solutions product lines, (iii) the development of new partnerships and the impact of consolidation in our industry, such as the recently announced acquisition of Tandberg by Cisco Systems, (iv) increased competition from larger companies like Cisco Systems, particularly upon the successful completion of the Tandberg acquisition, and Hewlett-Packard and (v) the introduction by our competitors of new products that may be considered more technologically advanced than the products that we offer and that are introduced in the market more rapidly than we can offer them; • the timing and extent of additional investments we make to support our recently announced strategic initiatives may not result in the revenue and profitability growth that these investments are intended to yield; • slowing sales by our channel partners to their customers, which places further pressure on our channel partners to minimize inventory levels and reduce purchases of our products; 19 Table of Contents • changes to our channel partner programs, contracts and strategy that could result in a reduction in the number of channel partners, could adversely impact our revenues and gross margins as we realign our discount and rebate programs for our channels, or could cause more of our channel partners to add our competitors’ products to their portfolio; • changes to our sales organization with the recent hiring of a new executive vice president of Global Field Operations and vice president of U.S. Sales and other changes in the global sales organization, which creates distraction for our sales force and our channel partners, may lead to employee attrition in the sales organization and may materially impact our future revenues and profitability during the transition period; • the impairment of investments, including the preferred equity securities and corporate debt in our investment portfolio, as well as our strategic investments or other assets; • the impact of the volatility of the U.S. dollar, which could result in delays in purchasing our products or lower average selling prices to offset the volatility, affecting both revenues and gross margins; • the prices and performance of our products and those of our existing or potential new competitors, which can change rapidly due to technological innovations; • the timing, size and mix of the orders for our products; • the negative impact of the growth of our VoIP product sales on sales of our circuit-switched products and whether VoIP product sales will serve as an effective driver for sales of our IP-based video communications solutions, as we anticipate; • the level and mix of inventory that we hold to meet future demand, including the impact of our efforts to decrease inventory and improve inventory turns, which could negatively impact our gross margins as a result of under absorption of our manufacturing costs in any given period; • changes in effective tax rates which are difficult to predict due to, among other things, the timing and geographical mix of our earnings, the outcome of current or future tax audits and potential new rules and regulations; • changes in the underlying factors and assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables used in the option-pricing model to determine stock-based compensation which may result in significant variability in the stock-based compensation costs we record, making such amounts difficult to accurately predict; • fluctuations in the level of international sales and our exposure to the impact of international currency fluctuations on both revenues and expenses; • dependence on third party manufacturers, which includes outside development manufacturers, and the associated manufacturing costs; • the impact of increasing costs of freight and components used in the manufacturing of our products and the potential negative impact on our gross margins; • the magnitude of any costs that we must incur in the event of a product recall or of costs associated with product warranty claims; • the impact of seasonality on our various product lines and geographic regions; and • adverse outcomes in intellectual property litigation and other matters and the costs associated with asserting and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio. As a result of these and potentially other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market securities analysts or investors, our stock price will likely decline. 20 Table of Contents We face risks associated with developing and marketing our products, including new product development and new product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model. Our success depends on our ability to assimilate new technologies in our products and to properly train our channel partners, sales force and end-user customers in the use of those products. The markets for video communications solutions and voice communications solutions products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as the recent demand for high definition video technology and lower cost video infrastructure products, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction of new products, proper positioning of new products in relation to our total product portfolio and their relative pricing, our ability to price our products competitively while maintaining favorable product margins, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. Other factors that may affect our success include properly addressing the complexities associated with compatibility issues, channel partner and sales force training, technical and sales support, and field support. Further, as our product portfolio expanded and as we entered into product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model and more complex negotiations, such as our RPX and TPX product lines, we made key strategic investments in additional sales and marketing personnel in 2008 and 2009 and are doing so again in 2010 as part of our strategic initiative to invest in our go-to-market capabilities. It will take time for us to hire additional key sales and marketing talent in such numbers that we believe are required to compete effectively both domestically and internationally and then further time for such new personnel to receive training and to become familiar with our product lines and services. In addition, we plan to make additional investments in developing our immersive telepresence products as part of our recently announced key strategic initiatives. Ultimately, it is possible that our increased investments in this area may not yield the financial results that we plan to achieve from such investments as quickly as anticipated, or at all. In addition, in our high end video communications solutions, such as telepresence, that typically require direct high touch sales involvement with potential customers, we compete directly with large, multi-national corporations, such as Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard, who have substantially greater financial, technical and executive resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition and market presence with many potential customers. We continually need to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion as to desirability of new product offerings compared to our existing product offerings. During the last few years, we launched several new product offerings, and there is a risk that these new products could cause confusion among our channel partners and end-users, thereby causing them to delay purchases of any product until they determine if these products are more desirable products than our other products. We recently introduced our RMX 4000, RMX 2000 and RMX 1000 conferencing platforms, which provide the next generation of conferencing infrastructure and had a negative impact on the sales of our MGC™ media servers, and the HDX™ 4000, our high definition executive desktop product, which had a negative impact on sales of our existing executive desktop product. Further we believe that the anticipation of the announcement of our HDX™ 8000 video conferencing product, our high definition video conferencing product for small- to medium-sized conference rooms, temporarily delayed sales of our HDX™ 9000 video conferencing product, our high definition video conferencing product intended for larger conference room settings, in the third quarter of 2007. Similar delays in future purchases could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and operating results in the period of the delay. In addition, the introduction of new products such as the HDX™ 7000 video conferencing product for smaller conference rooms and our latest Polycom CX5000 Unified Conferencing 21 Table of Contents Station may have an unintended negative impact on sales of and corresponding revenues associated with other video conferencing products such as our VSX and other HDX and telepresence offerings. We and our channel partners must also effectively educate our potential end-user customers about the benefits of video conferencing and the products that we offer and the features available over those of our competitors. The shift in communications from circuit-switched to IP-based technologies over time may require us to add new channel partners, enter new markets and gain new core technological competencies. We are attempting to address these needs and the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts, through joint developments with other companies and through acquisitions. We may not identify successful new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely manner. Further, as we introduce new products that can or will render existing products obsolete, these product transition cycles may not go smoothly, causing an increased risk of inventory obsolescence and relationship issues with our end-user customers and channel partners. The failure of our new product development efforts, any inability to service or maintain the necessary third-party interoperability licenses, our inability to properly manage product transitions or to anticipate new product demand, or our inability to enter new markets would harm our business and results of operations. We may experience delays in product introductions and availability, and our products may contain defects which could seriously harm our results of operations. We have experienced delays in the introduction of certain new products and enhancements in the past, such as the delays experienced with the introduction of our HDX 9000 in the fourth quarter of 2007. The delays in product release dates that we experienced in the past were due to factors such as unforeseen technology issues, manufacturing ramping issues and other factors, which we believe negatively impacted our sales revenue in the relevant periods. Any of these or other factors may occur again and delay our future product releases. In addition, we have occasionally terminated new product development efforts prior to any introduction of the new product. Our product development groups are dispersed among California, Colorado, Georgia, Massachusetts and Texas in the United States, as well as in China, Denmark, India and Israel. Our need to manage large and geographically dispersed product development groups in our product lines results in certain inefficiencies and increased product development costs and creates an increased risk of delays in new product introductions. We produce highly complex communications equipment, which includes both hardware and software and incorporates new technologies and component parts from different suppliers. Resolving product defect and technology and quality issues could cause delays in new product introduction. Component part shortages, such as those we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2009, could also cause delays in product delivery to our customers and lead to increased costs as we are required to expedite shipping to meet our product order requests. Further, some defects may not be detected or cured prior to a new product launch, or may be detected after a product has already been launched and may be incurable or result in a product recall. For example, in the past we have encountered defects with the lithium ion batteries in our wireless products. The occurrence of any of these events has resulted and could in the future result in the failure of a partial or entire product line or a temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from the market. We may also have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems, including product reengineering expenses and inventory, warranty and replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Any delays in the future for new product offerings currently under development, any product shipment delays or any product quality issues, product defect issues or product recalls could adversely affect the market acceptance of these products (and correspondingly result in loss of market share), our ability to compete effectively in the market, and our reputation and the satisfaction of our customers, and therefore could lead to decreased product sales and could seriously harm our results of operations. We may also experience cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-user customers. 22 Table of Contents Product obsolescence and excess inventory can negatively affect our results of operations. We operate in a high technology industry which is subject to rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes. These changes can often render existing or developing technologies obsolete. In addition, the introduction of new products and any related actions to discontinue existing products can cause existing inventory to become obsolete. These obsolescence issues, or any failure by us to properly anticipate product life cycles, can require write-downs in inventory value when it is determined that the recorded value of existing inventory is greater than its fair market value. Further, as customers transition to our HDX video conferencing endpoints from our VSX video conferencing endpoints or to our RMX platform from our MGC network systems products, we may experience additional write-downs in inventory value of these products in the future, as has happened in the past. Also, the pace of change in technology development and in the release of new products has increased and is expected to continue to increase. If sales of one of these products has an unplanned negative effect on sales of another of our products, it could significantly increase the inventory levels of the negatively impacted product. For each of our products, the potential exists for new products to render existing products obsolete, cause inventories of existing products to increase, cause us to discontinue a product or reduce the demand for existing products. We face risks related to the adoption rate of new technologies. We have invested significant resources developing products that are dependent on the adoption rate of new technologies. For example, our SoundStation® IP and SoundPoint® IP products are dependent on the roll out of voice-over-IP, or VoIP, technologies. In addition, VoIP products are traditionally sold through service providers. We may not be successful in expanding our current service provider network or maintaining a successful service provider network or one that we can successfully leverage beyond our current value added reseller model. The success of our HDX 4000, VSX 3000 and CMA™ Desktop software application products depends on the increased use of desktop video collaboration technologies. Further, as we see the adoption rate of new technologies increase, product sales of our legacy products may be negatively impacted. Due to the SpectraLink acquisition, we now face risks related to our ability to respond to rapid technological changes within the on-premises wireless telephone industry. The wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and evolving industry standards. The success of all of our products is also dependent on how quickly Session Initiation Protocol (or SIP), which is a signaling protocol for Internet conferencing, telephony, presence, events notification and instant messaging; firewall and Network Address Translation (or NAT) traversal, which is an Internet standard that enables a local-area network (or LAN) to use one set of IP addresses for internal traffic and a second set of addresses for external traffic; and call management integration technologies are deployed as new technologies and how quickly we adopt and integrate these new technologies into our existing and future products. The success of our Polycom V2IU™ and firewall traversal solutions will depend on market acceptance and the effect of current and potential competitors and competitive products. Further, a lower than anticipated rate of acceptance of domestic and international markets using the 802.11 standard or the emergence of competing standards may impede the growth of our wireless handset sales. In addition, we develop new products or product enhancements based upon anticipated demand for new features and functionality, such as next generation high definition video resolution technology. We may not be able to sell certain of our products in significant volumes and our business may be harmed if the use of new technologies that our future products are based on does not occur; if the development of suitable sales channels does not occur, or occurs more slowly than expected; if our products that incorporate new technologies are not priced competitively or are not readily adopted; or if the adoption rates of such new technologies do not drive demand for our other products as we anticipate. For example, although we believe increased sales of group and desktop video communications solutions will drive increased demand for video infrastructure products, such increased demand may not occur or we may not benefit to the same extent as our competitors. We also may not be successful in creating demand in our installed customer base, such as customers who have our legacy SoundStation products, for products that we develop that incorporate new technologies or features. 23 Table of Contents We may not successfully execute on our product requirements because of errors in defining product marketing requirements, planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. Due to the competitive nature of our business, any failure by us to meet any of these challenges could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, and operating results. Lower than expected market acceptance of our products, price competition and other price changes would negatively impact our business. If the market does not accept our products, particularly our new product offerings which we are relying on for future revenues, our profitability would be harmed. Further, new products typically have lower gross margins for a period of time after their introduction. We have recently launched a number of new products and new products are becoming an increasing percentage of our revenues. For example, our HD video products, which generate higher gross profit dollars than our other non-HD video products due to higher average selling prices, may result in a lower overall gross margin percentage for an extended period of time after their introduction depending upon the mix of new products sold during the period. Our profitability could also be negatively affected in the future as a result of continuing competitive price pressures in the sale of video and voice conferencing equipment and video infrastructure products, which could cause us to reduce the prices for any of these products or discontinue one product with the intent of simplifying our product offering and enhancing sales of a similar product. For example, we believe that the sequential declines in video network systems product revenues that we experienced in the first and second quarters of 2008 are due in part to lower average selling prices as a result of increased competitive pressures. Further, we have reduced prices in the past in order to expand the market for our products, and in the future, we may further reduce prices, introduce new products that carry lower margins in order to expand the market or stimulate demand for our products, or discontinue existing products as a means of stimulating growth in a similar product. In addition, we anticipate that our gross margins may become more difficult to predict due to these types of changes, the wide range of margins associated with each of our product lines, and shifts in the mix of products sold. Our video network systems products typically have higher gross margins than our other product lines. Therefore, our overall gross margins could decrease if we experience decreases in our video network systems product sales. Further, if our video network systems sales suffer, there may be a correspondingly negative impact on our services business, which relies in part on video network systems sales for its success. Finally, if we do not fully anticipate, understand and fulfill the needs of end-user customers in the vertical markets that we serve, we may not be able to fully capitalize on product sales into those vertical markets and our revenues may, accordingly, fail to grow as anticipated or may be adversely impacted. Failure to adequately service and support our product offerings could harm our results of operations. Our products are becoming increasingly more complex and are incorporating more complex technologies, such as those included in our video network systems products, our new video product offerings and our software products. This has increased the need for enhanced product warranty and service capabilities. If we cannot adequately develop and train our internal support organization or maintain our relationship with our outside technical support provider, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, sales of our telepresence product line are more complex sales transactions than our other product lines, and the end-user customer in such transactions typically purchases an enhanced level of support service from us so that it can ensure that this significant investment can be fully operational and satisfy the end-user’s requirements. This requires an enhanced level of support and project management from the Company in terms of resources and technical knowledge of an end-user customer’s telecommunication network. As this type of service is relatively new for us, our inability to provide the proper level of support on a cost beneficial basis may cause damage to our reputation in this new emerging market and may, as a result, harm our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations. We have acquired several businesses, which together resulted in goodwill valued at approximately $495.3 million and other purchased intangible assets valued at approximately $46.3 million as of December 31, 2009. This represents a significant portion of the assets recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or sooner under certain circumstances. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating fundamentals, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a charge to operations will not occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. The decreases in revenue and stock price that have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of global economic factors make such an impairment more likely to result. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values, as we did in the fourth quarter of 2007 when we wrote down certain intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Voyant in the amount of $3.6 million. If and when these write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have made investments in private companies which we classify as “Other assets” on our balance sheet. The value of these investments is influenced by many factors, including the operating effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies’ industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. To date, due to these and other factors, we have recorded cumulative charges against earnings totaling $21.5 million associated with the impairment of such investments. As of December 31, 2009, our investments in private companies are valued at $2.2 million. We may make additional investments in private companies which would be subject to similar impairment risks, and these impairment risks may cause us to write down the recorded value of any such investments. Further, we cannot assure you that future inventory, investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not happen. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions or executing divestitures could adversely impact our business. Difficulties in integrating past or potential future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed a number of acquisitions during our operating history. The process of integrating acquired companies into our operations requires significant resources and is time consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, to retain key personnel, or to successfully integrate the operations of these companies could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from our acquisitions because of the following significant challenges: • incorporating the acquired company’s technology and products into our current and future product lines; • potential deterioration of the acquired company’s product sales and corresponding revenues due to integration activities and management distraction; • potentially creating confusion in the marketplace by ineffectively distinguishing or marketing the product offerings of the newly acquired company with our existing product lines; • potentially incompatible cultural differences between the two companies; • geographic dispersion of operations; • interruption of manufacturing operations as we transition an acquired company’s manufacturing to our outsourced manufacturing model; • generating marketing demand for an expanded product line; 25 Table of Contents • distraction of the existing and acquired sales force during the integration of the companies; • the difficulty in leveraging the acquired company’s and our combined technologies and capabilities across all product lines and customer bases; and • our inability to retain previous customers or employees of an acquired company. Further, future acquisition agreements may incorporate earn-out provisions in them that entitle the former shareholders of the acquired companies to receive additional consideration upon the satisfaction of certain predetermined criteria. It is possible that disputes over unpaid earn-out amounts may result in litigation to the Company, which could be costly and cause management distraction. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources identifying and acquiring businesses. The efficient and effective integration of our acquired businesses into our organization is critical to our growth. Any of our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, particularly when dealing with the integration of large and complex organizations such as SpectraLink, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of the companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additional costs associated with acquisitions or any future acquisitions we may make. Our failure to successfully implement restructuring plans related to vacant and redundant facilities could adversely impact our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, as part of acquiring a company or as part of restructuring actions taken to streamline the business, identify redundant facilities. If we identify redundant facilities, we would develop a plan to exit as part of the integration of the businesses or as part of the implementation of the restructuring plan. For example, as of December 31, 2009 we have a remaining liability in the amount of $0.9 million related to facilities we vacated in connection with our acquisition of SpectraLink. This reserve is net of estimated sublease income we expect to generate. Our estimate of sublease income is based on current comparable rates for leases in the respective markets. If actual sublease income is lower than our estimates for any reason, including as a result of the global economic crisis, if it takes us longer than we estimated to sublease these facilities, or if the associated cost of subleasing or terminating our lease obligations for these facilities is greater than we estimated, we would incur additional charges to operations which would harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any such cash outflows or additional costs exceed the amount of our recorded liability related to the sublease or termination of these lease obligations, we could incur a charge to operations which would harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. Our failure to effectively execute a divestiture of a product line could adversely impact our business. If we divest any of our product lines in the future, such as we did with our network access product line in 2003, such divestitures may not be executed effectively, which could adversely impact our customer relationships or cause other adverse effects during a transition. We experience seasonal demand for our products and services, which may adversely impact our results of operations during certain periods. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our first and third quarters. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the European region in the third quarter of each year and sales to government entities typically slow in our fourth quarter and to a greater extent in our first quarter. In addition, sales of our video 26 Table of Contents conferencing products have historically declined in the first quarter of the year compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales may occur at the end of a quarter and certain of our service provider contracts include contractual acceptance provisions. The timing of our channel partner orders and product shipments and our inability to reduce expenses quickly can result in harm to our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend in large part upon the volume and timing of channel partner orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as revenue during each quarter, each of which is extremely difficult to forecast. For example, in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, we experienced delays in orders from our channel partners, particularly in the last few weeks of the quarter, that we believe were attributable to global economic factors. We are also experiencing longer sales cycles in connection with our high end video conferencing solutions sales and our voice solutions products, which could also increase the level of unpredictability and fluctuation in the timing of orders. Further, depending upon the complexity of these solutions, such as telepresence and some video network systems products, and the underlying contractual terms, revenue may not be recognized until the product has been accepted by the end-user, resulting in further revenue unpredictability. Moreover, a significant portion of our orders in a given quarter are shipped in the last month of that quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of the quarter. While our product backlog has increased in recent years, we typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order. In addition, we believe that backlog levels will continue to fluctuate due to many factors such as the ability of our sales force to generate orders linearly throughout the quarter, our ability to forecast revenue mix and plan our manufacturing capacity, customer request dates, timing of product acceptance where contractually required and ongoing service deferrals as service revenues increase as a percent of total revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could significantly negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. As a result, our backlog could decline significantly in future quarters, as we saw in the first quarter of 2009, and we do not believe backlog is a good indicator of future operating results. Any degradation in linearity levels or any failure or delay in the closing of orders during the last part of a quarter would materially harm our operating results. Furthermore, we may be unable to ship products in the period we receive the order due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our expectations for both short and long-term future revenues are based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand and not on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, a significant portion of our product orders are received in the last month of a quarter, typically the last few weeks of that quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. Further, our products are typically categorized as capital equipment and, due to the current unfavorable economic and credit environment, budgets for capital equipment purchases may continue to be delayed, reduced or eliminated for 2010, causing continued unpredictability for 2010. Accordingly, if for any reason orders and revenues do not meet our expectations in a particular period, we will be limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly, and any significant shortfall in demand for our products in relation to our expectations would have an adverse impact on our operating results. Delays in receiving contractual acceptance will cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue and may impact our quarterly revenues, depending upon the timing and shipment of orders under such contracts. Certain of our sales contracts include product acceptance provisions which vary depending upon the type of product and individual terms of the contract. In addition, acceptance criteria may be required in other contracts in 27 Table of Contents the future, depending upon the size and complexity of the sale and the type of products ordered. As we increase our focus on growing our service provider business, it is likely that an increased amount of our revenue will be subject to such contractual acceptance terms. Accordingly, we defer revenue until the underlying acceptance criteria in any given contract have been met. Depending upon the acceptance terms, the timing of the receipt and subsequent shipment of an order may result in acceptance delays, may reduce the predictability of our revenues, and, consequently, may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations in any particular quarter. We face risks related to our dependence on channel partners to sell our products. To avoid confusion by our channel partners regarding our product offerings, we need to continually devote significant resources to educating and training them. When we take any significant actions regarding our product offerings, or acquire new product offerings, it is important to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion on the desirability of the new product offering in relation to our existing product offerings. For instance, integrating acquired product offerings with ours has created confusion among our channel partners in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We will need to continue to devote significant resources to educate and train our channel partners about our product offerings. We have launched our HDX video conferencing products and our RMX conferencing platform, all of which continue to require significant resources and training to educate our channels. Channel confusion could also occur if we do not adequately train or educate the channel on our product families, especially in the cases where we simplify our product offerings by discontinuing one product in order to stimulate growth of a similar product. Ongoing confusion may lead to delays in ordering our products, which would negatively affect our revenues. Conflicts and competition with our channel partners and strategic partners could hurt sales of our products. We have various original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agreements with major telecommunications equipment manufacturers, such as Avaya and Cisco Systems, whereby we manufacture our products to work with the equipment of the OEM. These relationships can create conflicts with our other channel partners who directly compete with our OEM partners, or could create conflicts among our OEM partners who compete with each other, which could adversely affect revenues from these other channel partners or our OEM partners. Conflicts among our OEM partners could also make continued partnering with these OEM partners increasingly difficult, or our OEM partners, including large competitors such as Cisco Systems, may decide to enter into a new OEM partnership with a company other than us or develop products of their own, or acquire such products through acquisition, that compete with ours in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because many of our channel partners also sell equipment that competes with our products, these channel partners could devote more attention to these other products which could harm our business. Further, as we move to a more direct-touch sales model, we may alienate some of our channel partners or cause a shift in product sales from our traditional channel model as these traditional relationships evolve over time. Due to these and other factors, channel conflicts could arise which cause channel partners to devote resources to other non-Polycom communications equipment, or to offer new products from our new and existing competitors, which would negatively affect our business or results of operations. Further, consolidation among our channel partners or strategic partners may adversely impact our business as we expect short-term distraction and a potential negative impact on our revenues during the integration of the two companies. We licensed from Microsoft the right to distribute our re-branded Polycom® CX5000 Unified Conference Station in the second quarter of 2009. The Polycom CX5000 contributed to our sequential growth in video communications solutions product revenues in the second quarter of 2009. While we experienced strong sales in the initial quarters of the product launch, such results may not be necessarily indicative of future product sales. Additionally, in the future, Microsoft could decide to enter into similar distribution agreements for this product with companies other than us which could adversely affect our revenues in future periods. 28 Table of Contents As part of our recently announced key strategic initiatives, we intend to build strategic partnerships with such companies as Avaya, Broadsoft, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Juniper, Microsoft and Siemens; however, defining and developing these partnerships is expensive and time consuming and may not come to fruition or yield the desired results. For example, our prototypical home telepresence solution, as demonstrated in January 2010 as part of IBM’s Connected Home initiative, may not result ultimately in our ability to capture successfully the opportunities presented in the home videoconferencing market. Some of our current and future products are directly competitive with the products sold by both our channel and strategic partners. For example, we have an agreement with Cisco Systems under which we ship SoundStation IP conference phones for resale by Cisco Systems. In addition, Cisco Systems sells a video infrastructure product which is in direct competition with our video network systems offerings. Also, Cisco Systems has a partnership with Tandberg, one of our major competitors in the video communications solutions business, pursuant to which Tandberg provides Cisco Systems with technology that is co-branded and sold by Cisco Systems, and Cisco Systems has recently announced its plans to acquire Tandberg. Cisco Systems has also announced new video conferencing products that are in direct competition with our video conferencing solutions., We also compete with Cisco Systems in the WLAN space. As a consequence of conflicts such as these, there is the potential for our channel and strategic partners to compete head-to-head with us and to significantly reduce or eliminate their orders of our products or design our technology out of their products. Further, some of our products are reliant on strategic partnerships with call servers providers and wireless network systems providers. These partnerships result in interoperable features between products to deliver a total solution to our mutual end-user customers. Competition with our partners in all of the markets in which we operate is likely to increase, potentially resulting in strains on our existing relationships with these companies. As an example, we are now competing in the voice-over-IP handset arena through service providers, which may cause our relationships with our IP PBX strategic partners to erode. In addition, due to increasing competition with us for sales of video conferencing equipment, Cisco Systems may decide to terminate its relationship with us to resell our SoundStation IP conference phones or eliminate the interoperability of its wireless access points with our SpectraLink 8000 wireless telephones. Further, our strategic partners may acquire businesses that are competitive with us. Any such strain or acquisition could limit the potential contribution of our strategic relationships to our business, restrict our ability to form strategic relationships with these companies in the future and create additional competitive pressures on us, including downward pressure on our average selling prices, which would result in a decrease in both revenues and gross margins, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a recurrence or continuation of global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenues would be negatively affected. For example, in the first quarter of 2009, we generally saw our channel partners decrease their inventory levels in response to lower sales to dealers and end-users, which negatively affected our revenues during the quarter. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenues in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, or product returns may exceed historical or predicted levels, which would harm our business. Moreover, if we choose to eliminate or reduce special cost or stocking incentive programs, quarterly revenues may fail to meet our expectations or be lower than historical levels. In addition, we accrue for sales returns and other allowances as a reduction to revenues upon shipment based upon our contractual obligations and historical experience, and the underlying reserve requirements will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon the volume and mix of revenues to our channel partners. 29 Table of Contents Our revenue estimates associated with products stocked by some of our channel partners are based largely on end-user sales reports that our channel partners provide to us on a monthly basis. To date, we believe this data has been generally accurate. To the extent that this sales-out and channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received timely, we may not be able to make revenue estimates for future periods. Potential changes to our channel partner programs or channel partner contracts may not be favorably received and as a result our channel partner relationships and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our channel partners are eligible to participate in various incentive programs, depending upon their contractual arrangements with us. As part of these arrangements, we have the right to make changes in our programs and launch new programs as business conditions warrant. Further, from time to time, we may make changes to our channel partner contracts. These changes could upset our channel partners to the extent that they could add competitive products to their portfolios, delay advertising or sales of our products, or shift more emphasis to selling our competitors products, if not appropriately handled. There can be no assurance that our channel partners will be receptive to future changes or that we will receive the positive benefits that we are anticipating in making any program and contractual changes. Consolidation of our channel partners and strategic partners may result in changes to our overall business relationships, less favorable contractual terms and disruption to our business. We have seen consolidation among certain of our existing channel partners and strategic partners. In such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity. Further, our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be limited. For instance, the combined entity may be successful in negotiating the most favorable contractual terms out of each of their respective contracts, including terms such as credit and acceptance, which are less favorable than those in our existing contracts with each channel partner. Depending on the extent of these changes and other disruption caused to the combined businesses during the integration period, the timing and extent of revenue from these channel partners may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the success of the businesses of our channel partners. Many of our channel partners that carry multiple Polycom products, and from whom we derive significant revenues, are thinly capitalized. Although we perform ongoing evaluations of the creditworthiness of our channel partners, the failure of these businesses to establish and sustain profitability, obtain financing or adequately fund capital expenditures could have a significant negative effect on our future revenue levels and profitability and our ability to collect our receivables. As we have grown our revenues and our customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. In addition, global economic uncertainty and recessionary factors, a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries, and the financial services crisis have restricted the availability of capital, which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy, jeopardizing the collectability of our revenues from such channel partners and negatively impacting our future results as they reorganize or go out of business. For example, our partner Nortel filed for bankruptcy protection in the first quarter of 2009, one of our Asian distributors filed for bankruptcy in the third quarter of 2008 and one of our large European distributors filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2007. Since filing bankruptcy, our level of business with Nortel has been materially lower than that of historical levels and the recent acquisition by Avaya of Nortel’s enterprise solutions business could have a further negative impact on revenues. Our channel partner contracts are typically short-term and early termination of these contracts may harm our results of operations. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our channel partners, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our channel partners. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is 30 Table of Contents generally terminable at the convenience of the channel partner. In the event of an early termination by one of our major channel partners, we believe that the end-user customer would likely purchase from another one of our channel partners. If this did not occur and we were unable to rapidly replace that revenue source, its loss would harm our results of operations. If revenues from sales to our service provider customers decrease significantly from prior periods, or if the intended results of our strategic initiative focused around service providers do not come to fruition, our results of operations may suffer materially. Service providers constitute some of the larger end-user customers of our network systems products, and we experience significant quarterly variability in the timing and amount of these orders. The revenues for network systems products from service providers are subject to more variability than network systems product revenues from our channel partners. Further, we recently announced a focus on service providers’ to provide enhanced sell-through, as well as specific products and services to support their growing offerings in the managed and hosted space. The loss of any one of these service provider customers for our network systems products, or our failure to adequately maintain or grow the level of network systems-related product sales to service providers or to execute properly on our service provider strategic initiative, could have a materially adverse impact on our consolidated revenues and profitability. For example, in 2008 our revenues for our voice network systems products, which are sold primarily to service provider customers, decreased by 66% compared to 2007. We face risks related to our international operations and sales. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses and risks inherent in international operations could harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses, and we anticipate that international sales will continue to increase and to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future and that international operating expenses will continue to increase. International sales and expenses are subject to certain inherent risks, including the following: • adverse economic conditions in international markets, including the current credit crisis and global recession; • potential foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility of the U.S. dollar, and the impact of our underlying hedging programs; • environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in competing effectively for international sales against international competitors; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the near and long-term impact of the instability in the Middle East or other hostilities; • disruptions in business due to natural disasters, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases or other events beyond our control; and • adverse economic impact of terrorist attacks and incidents and any military response to those attacks. 31 Table of Contents International revenues may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in the future as we introduce new products. These fluctuations are primarily the result of our practice of introducing new products in North America first and the additional time and costs required for product homologation and regulatory approvals of new products in international markets. To the extent we are unable to expand international sales in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Although to date, a substantial majority of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. currency, we expect that a growing number of sales will be denominated in non-U.S. currencies as more international customers request billing in their currency. We maintain local currency pricing in the European Union and the United Kingdom whereby we price and invoice our products and services in Euros and British Pounds. In addition, some of our competitors currently invoice in foreign currency, which could be a disadvantage to us in those markets where we do not. Further, with the recent credit crisis and volatility of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in the second half of 2008, our products have become more expensive for our partners whose purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, which may further disadvantage us relative to our competitors or negatively impact our margins. Our international operating expenses are denominated in foreign currency. As a result of these factors, we expect our business will be significantly more vulnerable to currency fluctuations, which could adversely impact our results of operations. These currency fluctuations would be recorded in Interest and Other Income (Expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will continue to evaluate whether to, and are likely to decide to, expand the type of products we sell in selected foreign currencies in addition to the Euro and British Pound or may, for specific customer situations, choose to sell our products in foreign currencies, thereby further increasing our foreign exchange risk. While we do not hedge for speculative purposes, as a result of our increased exposure to currency fluctuations, we typically engage in currency hedging activities to mitigate currency fluctuation exposure. As a result, our hedging costs can vary depending upon the size of our hedge program, whether we are purchasing or selling foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar and interest rates spreads between the U.S. and other foreign markets. As a result, Interest and Other Income (Expense) has become less predictable and more difficult to forecast. Due to the denomination of our European product sales in Euros and of our United Kingdom product sales in British Pounds, we have increased our hedging activity. The impact in any given quarter of our hedging programs is dependent upon a number of factors, including the actual level of foreign currency denominated revenues, the percentage of actual revenues covered by our hedge contracts, the exchange rate in our underlying hedge contracts and the actual exchange rate during the quarter. For example, as a result of our cash flow hedging program, in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, we reduced operating income by $0.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively, as compared to increasing operating income in the first and second quarters of 2009 by $2.3 million, and $1.6 million respectively. In addition, significant adverse changes in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in revenue or profitability in that country, as discounts may be temporarily or permanently affected. Difficulties we may encounter managing a substantially larger business could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, including the retention of key sales personnel as we experience transition under new sales leadership. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. In addition, the success of the planned expansion of our sales force as part of our recently announced strategic initiative around increasing our go-to-market capability is also dependent upon their ability to achieve certain productivity levels in an acceptable timeframe and any inability to do so could be disruptive to our business and have a material adverse impact on our operating results. For instance, we believe that execution by the sales team in the third quarter of 2007 was adversely impacted by distraction caused in part by the shift to a direct-touch sales model, as well as due to the ongoing integration of the SpectraLink operations at that time. Given the 32 Table of Contents decrease in our stock price, the equity incentives of our employees have significantly decreased in value. This decline may create difficulty in retaining employees who may choose to seek new employment with corresponding new higher value equity grants, and any attempt to grant new or higher value equity to retain employees may create dilution for current investors. From time to time, we may also decide to replace certain key personnel, such personnel may leave unexpectedly or we may make changes in certain senior management positions, particularly as we continue to grow in terms of size and complexity, or make organizational changes such as we did in 2007 when we created the video communications solutions organization, through the combination of our Video and Network Systems divisions. In July 2009, we hired a new executive vice president of Global Field Operations and vice president of U.S. Sales, as well as other changes in our global sales organization, which creates distraction for our sales force and our channel partners, may lead to employee attrition in the sales organization and may materially impact our future revenues and profitability during the transition period. Such transitions may be disruptive to the affected function and our business, possibly on a longer term basis than we expect, particularly as the sales team, many of whom have not worked together previously, learns to work together effectively, and could divert management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns, or as we continue to have changes in key sales personnel, which may result in continued disruptions to the business. Further, we may not experience the operating efficiencies in product planning, research, and development or sales productivity that any reorganizations within the sales organization are intended to achieve. In addition, most recently, in November, 2009, we announced that our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Voice Communications Solutions, is leaving the Company and is no longer serving in that capacity. Our Chief Executive Officer has assumed these duties on an interim basis. An extended search to find a replacement general manager for the Voice Communications division could have a negative impact on the division’s performance during the interim period as it may cause management distraction and the inability of that product group to execute as anticipated. The loss of key employees, including key employees from our recently acquired companies, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly technical and management, as needed, could harm our business. In addition, as we add more complex software product offerings, it will become increasingly important to retain and attract individuals who are skilled in managing and developing these complex software product offerings. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key technical or management personnel could have an adverse and disruptive impact on their affected function and, consequently, materially harm our business or operations. We have experienced significant growth in our business and operations due to internal expansion and business acquisitions, and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and any future growth, our operating results will be negatively affected. Our business has grown in recent years through both internal expansion and business acquisitions, including our acquisitions of SpectraLink and Destiny in 2007, and we recently announced several key strategic initiatives that we are undertaking to further grow our business, including enhancing our go-to-market capability, increasing our strategic partnerships, focusing on service providers’ enhanced sell-through, as well as specific products and services to support their growing offerings in the managed and hosted space, increased innovation in our immersive telepresence products and expansion of our professional services practice. The Company’s execution against its strategic initiatives may cause strain on our organizational resources and may not ultimately result in the return on investment that is anticipated, particularly with respect to the heavy investment in go-to-market resources. Further, continued growth in general may continue to cause a significant strain on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including information technology and financial operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. Our productivity and the quality of our products may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees 33 Table of Contents quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations, all of which add to the complexity of our organization and increase our operating expenses. We also may be less able to predict and effectively control our operating expenses due to the growth and increasing complexity of our business. In addition, our information technology systems may not grow at a sufficient rate to keep up with the processing and information demands placed on them by a much larger company. The efforts to continue to expand our information technology systems or our inability to do so could harm our business. For instance, we are in the process of upgrading our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems to meet the growing demands of our business, which upgrade efforts were slowed toward the end of 2008 and early 2009 due to a decrease in Company spending during the period of economic downturn. The fact that such ERP upgrades were delayed, or may not be effectively completed, could cause harm to our ongoing business operations. Further, revenues may not grow at a sufficient rate to absorb the costs associated with a larger overall headcount. Our future growth may require significant additional resources given that, as we increase our business operations in complexity and scale, we may have insufficient management capabilities and internal bandwidth to manage our growth and business effectively. We cannot assure you that resources will be available when we need them or that we will have sufficient capital to fund these potential resource needs. Also, as we assess our resources following our acquisitions, we will likely determine that redundancy in certain areas will require consolidation of these resources, such as the associated restructuring activities we completed during 2008 and 2009. Any organizational disruptions associated with the consolidation process could require further management attention and financial expenditures, or we may discover we terminated the wrong personnel or cut too deeply, which may impact our operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, if we experience a shortfall in resources or if we must take additional restructuring charges, our results of operations will be harmed. Further, in 2009, we opened a Shared Services Center (“SSC”) in Beijing, China, to perform certain accounting, order entry and other functions previously performed in regional headquarter locations and we may expand our SSC operations in the future. These efforts to globalize these shared functions into one location may not yield the intended benefits and could result in higher turnover than planned and could have an adverse affect on these functions during the transition. In addition, if the controls we put in place with respect to the SSC fail to operate effectively, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Because of our operations in Israel, we are subject to risks associated with the military and political environment in Israel and the Middle East region. The research and development and manufacturing facilities for our network systems products and many of the suppliers for such products are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region directly affect our network systems group’s operations. A number of armed conflicts have taken place and continue to take place between Israel and its geographic neighbors. As a result, certain of our employees have been called to active military duty, and additional employees may be called to serve in the future. Current and future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may impair our ability to produce and sell our network systems products and could disrupt research or developmental activities. This instability could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, the military action in Iraq or other countries in the region perceived as a threat by the United States government could result in additional unrest or cause Israel to be attacked, which would adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. We have limited supply sources for some key components of our products and services and for the outside development and manufacture of certain of our products, and our operations could be harmed by supply or service interruptions, component defects or unavailability of these components or products. Some key components used in our products are currently available from only one source and others are available from only a limited number of sources, including some key integrated circuits and optical elements. Because of such limited sources for component parts, we may have little or no ability to procure these parts on 34 Table of Contents favorable pricing terms. We also obtain certain plastic housings, metal castings, batteries, and other components from suppliers located in China and certain Southeast Asia countries, and any political or economic instability in that region in the future, natural disasters, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or future import restrictions, may cause delays or an inability to obtain these supplies. Further, we have suppliers in Israel and the military action in Iraq or war with other Middle Eastern countries perceived as a threat by the United States government may cause delays or an inability to obtain supplies for our network systems products. We have no raw material supply commitments from our suppliers and generally purchase components on a purchase order basis either directly or through our contract manufacturers. Some of the components included in our products, such as microprocessors and other integrated circuits, have from time to time been subject to limited allocations by suppliers. In addition, companies with limited or uncertain financial resources manufacture some of these components. Further, we do not always have direct control over the supply chain, as many of our component parts are procured for us by our contract manufacturers. In the event that we, or our contract manufacturers, are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of components, develop alternative sources as needed, or companies with limited financial resources go out of business, our operating results could be seriously harmed. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we experienced material shortages from several key component suppliers which delayed our manufacturing output for certain of our voice, video and network system products. Some of these shortages will continue into the first quarter of 2010 and possibly longer. In addition, we may incur additional costs to resolve these supply shortages, which would negatively impact our gross margins, as we saw in the fourth quarter of 2009. Moreover, we have strategic relationships with third parties to develop and manufacture certain products for us. The loss of any such strategic relationship due to competitive reasons, our inability to resolve any contractual disputes that may arise between us, the financial instability of a strategic partner or their inability to obtain any financing necessary to adequately fund their operations, particularly in light of the current economic environment, or other factors, could have a negative impact on our ability to produce and sell certain products and product lines and, consequently, may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In the case of the video network operations center (VNOC) services we provide to users of our telepresence products, we are dependent upon third party suppliers for such services. In the event that any such supplier is acquired by a competitor or faces financial difficulty, such event creates a risk of VNOC service discontinuity for our customers while we search for a replacement provider and may materially adversely affect our ability to sell our telepresence products. Further, the business failure or financial instability of any supplier of these components or services or of any product manufacturer could adversely affect our cash flows if we were to expend funds in some manner to ensure the continued supply of those components or products. Additionally, our HDX video conferencing and network system products are designed based on digital signal processors and integrated circuits produced by Texas Instruments and cameras produced by JVC. Our VSX video conferencing products are designed based on integrated circuits produced by Equator Technologies, a subsidiary of Pixelworks Inc., and cameras produced by Sony. If we could no longer obtain integrated circuits or cameras from these suppliers, we would incur substantial expense and take substantial time in redesigning our products to be compatible with components from other manufacturers, and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in obtaining these components from alternative sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. Additionally, Sony competes with us in the video communications industry, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary components. The failure to obtain adequate supplies of vital components could prevent or delay product shipments, which could harm our business. We also rely on the introduction schedules of some key components in the development or launch of new products. Any delays in the availability of these key components could harm our business. 35 Table of Contents Finally, our operating results would be seriously harmed by receipt of a significant number of defective components or components that fail to fully comply with environmental or other regulatory requirements, an increase in component prices, such as the price increases for components as a result of increased transportation and manufacturing costs of our suppliers, or our inability to obtain lower component prices in response to competitive price reductions. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints or failure of our information technology systems would harm our business. We subcontract the manufacture of our voice products, including our wireless products, and video product lines to Celestica, a third-party contract manufacturer. We use Celestica’s facilities in Thailand, China and Singapore, and should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, terrorist acts, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or economic or political difficulties in any of these countries or Asia or any other reason, such disruption would harm our business and results of operations. While we have begun to develop secondary manufacturing sources for certain products, Celestica’s facilities are currently the manufacturer for substantially all of these products, which means we are essentially sole-sourced for the manufacturing of such products, and if Celestica experiences an interruption in operations, suffers from capacity constraints, which may include constraints based on production demands from us as we grow our business, or is otherwise unable to meet our current or future production requirements we would experience a delay or inability to ship our products, which would have an immediate negative impact on our revenues. Moreover, any incapacitation of any of our or our subcontractors’ manufacturing sites due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. Further, we could experience a failure of our ERP systems or other information technology systems that occurs toward the end of a financial quarter or that lasts for a significant duration, either of which events could adversely impact our ability to process orders and ship product in any given quarter. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation. In addition, operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. The majority of the DECT wireless products are manufactured in Horsens, Denmark. Any event that may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue the facilities’ capacity to manufacture, assemble and repair our DECT wireless products could impair our ability to generate revenue, fulfill orders and attain financial goals for these products. Finally, certain of our thinly capitalized subcontractors may fail or be detrimentally harmed in the current economic downturn, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. We face risks relating to changes in rules and regulations of the FCC and other regulatory agencies. The wireless communications industry is regulated by the FCC in the United States and similar government agencies in other countries and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum, or changing free un-licensed to fee based spectrum licensing, could significantly impact our wireless operations in the United States and internationally. For example, foreign countries which adopt the 802.11 standard could provide future markets for our SpectraLink 8000 products. However, countries’ certification and approval processes for 802.11 compatible products such as SpectraLink 8000 are typically time consuming and potentially costly. If we have difficulty or experience delays in obtaining certification and approval by foreign countries for our SpectraLink 8000 wireless telephone product, then we and/or our distributor channels may not be able to gain access to the markets in these countries in a timely fashion, if at all, which would limit international growth of our SpectraLink 8000 product line. 36 Table of Contents If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those rights we have, our business would be materially impaired. We rely on third-party license agreements and termination or impairment of these agreements may cause delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments which would harm our business. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software incorporated into our products. For example, we license video communications source code from ADTRAN, Aricent, Delcom, RADVISION, Simtrol, Skelmir, SNMP, Software House, Texas Instruments, Inc., and UB Video Inc., video algorithm protocols from DSP and ATT/Lucent, Windows software from Microsoft, development source code from Avaya, In Focus Systems Inc., Nokia, Vocal Technologies Ltd., Wind River, Ingenient and Avistar, audio algorithms from Telchemy, D2 Technologies, Ericsson, Sipro, GIPS, Telogy and Voiceage, and communication software from Spirit. In addition, certain of our products are developed and manufactured based largely or solely on third-party technology. These third-party software licenses and arrangements may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays or reductions in new product introductions or current product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, licensed and integrated, if at all possible, which would harm our business and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to obtain necessary technology licenses on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, we could be prohibited from marketing our products, could be forced to market products without certain features, or could incur substantial costs to redesign our products, defend legal actions, or pay damages. In addition, some of our products may include “open source” software. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies incorporating open source software may be restricted because, among other factors, open source license terms may be unclear and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our product offerings. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Others may independently develop similar proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our intellectual property rights or disclose such technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the U.S. or foreign countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents. In addition, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, and we could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Further, our intellectual property protection controls across our global operations may not be adequate to fully protect us from the theft or misappropriation of our intellectual property, which could adversely harm our business. We face intellectual property infringement claims and other litigation claims that might be costly to resolve and, if resolved adversely, may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits (patent-related and otherwise) in the normal course of our business. The results of, and costs associated with, complex litigation matters are difficult to predict, and the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Negative developments with respect to pending lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline, and an unfavorable resolution of any particular lawsuit could have an adverse and possibly material effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may become involved in matters such as regulatory investigations or other governmental or private legal proceedings, which could result in requests for information from us that could be distracting, expensive and time consuming for us while we comply with such requests, and, if public, may also cause our stock price to be negatively impacted. 37 Table of Contents We expect that the number and significance of claims and legal proceedings that assert patent infringement claims or other intellectual property rights covering our products, either directly against us or against our customers, will increase as our business expands. In particular, we expect to face an increasing number of patent and copyright claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of video, voice, data and web conferencing products overlap. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts to third parties pursuant to contractual indemnity provisions. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. An unfavorable outcome in any such claim or proceeding could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations for the period in which the unfavorable outcome occurs, and potentially in future periods. Further, any settlement announced by us may expose us to further claims against us by third parties seeking monetary or other damages which, even if unsuccessful, would divert management attention from the business and cause us to incur costs, possibly material, to defend such matters. If we fail to manage our exposure to the volatility and economic uncertainty in the global financial marketplace successfully, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to financial risk associated with the global financial markets, which includes volatility in interest rates, uncertainty in the credit markets and the recent instability in the foreign currency exchange market. Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, maintain adequate liquidity and portfolio diversification while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, a majority of our marketable investments include debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate debt securities, bank certificates of deposit, corporate preferred equity securities that are primarily investment-grade rated and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. The valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities, interest rate changes, the ongoing strength and quality of the global credit market and liquidity. All of the securities in our investment portfolio are investment-grade rated, but the instability of the credit market could impact those ratings and our decision to hold these securities, if they do not meet our minimum credit rating requirements. If we should decide to sell such securities, we may suffer losses in principal value that have significantly declined in value due to the declining credit rating of the securities and the ongoing strength, quality and liquidity of the preferred equity’s market and the global financial markets as a whole. For example, in the second quarter of 2009, we incurred a loss of $0.6 million related to the sale of preferred equity securities. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments. For example, in the third quarter of 2008, we recognized losses totaling $0.9 million for investments we considered to be other than temporarily impaired. With the current instability in the financial markets, we could incur significant realized or other than temporary impairment losses associated with certain of our investments which would reduce our net income. We may also incur further temporary impairment charges requiring us to record additional unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, the recent decrease in interest rates has adversely impacted the return we receive on our investments. A significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily currencies in Europe and Asia. As a response to the risks of changes in value of foreign currency denominated transactions, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments, the majority of which have a maturity date greater than one year. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business or hedge the full 38 Table of Contents amount of each exposure identified. The translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will impact net revenues, operating expenses and net income as a result of fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. Accordingly, such amounts denominated in foreign currencies may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. For example, as a result of our cash flow hedging program, in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, we reduced operating income by $0.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively, as compared to increasing operating income in the first and second quarters of 2009 by $2.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Loss of government contracts or failure to obtain required government certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. We sell our products indirectly and provide services to governmental entities in accordance with certain regulated contractual arrangements. While reporting and compliance with government contracts is both our responsibility and the responsibility of our partner, our or our partner’s lack of reporting or compliance could have an impact on the sales of our products to government agencies. Further, the United States Federal government has certain certification and product requirements for products sold to them. If we are unable to meet applicable certification or other requirements within the timeframes specified by the United States Federal government, or if our competitors have certifications for competitive products for which we are not yet certified, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we were able to assert in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our control framework may suffer if we are unable to adapt our control framework appropriately as we continue to grow our business. For instance, in 2009 we opened a Shared Services Center (“SSC”) in Beijing, China, to perform certain accounting, order entry and other functions previously performed in regional headquarter locations. If the controls we put in place with respect to the SSC fail to operate effectively, our control framework could suffer or be considered ineffective. If we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, in December 2007, the FASB issued Accounting Standard, or ASC, Topic 805, Business Combinations, or ASC 805, which changed the accounting for business combinations including the measurement of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the recognition of capitalized in-process research and development, the accounting for 39 Table of Contents acquisition related restructuring liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related transaction costs and the recognition of changes in the acquirer’s income tax valuation allowance. ASC 805 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We believe that ASC 805 will result in the recognition of certain types of expenses in our results of operations that we would have capitalized pursuant to previous accounting standards and may also impact our financial statements in other ways upon the completion of any future acquisitions. In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on revenue recognition that will become effective for us beginning January 1, 2011, with earlier adoption permitted. Under the new guidance on arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential to the functionality of the tangible product will no longer be within the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products will now be subject to other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence or third party evidence for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, a best estimate of the selling price is required to separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. We are currently assessing the potential effect, if any, on our financial statements. Changes in our tax rates could adversely affect our future results. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates, which are difficult to predict, could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Further, the accounting for stock compensation expense in accordance with ASC 718 and uncertain tax positions in accordance with AS 740 could result in more unpredictability and variability to our future effective tax rates. The Company is also subject to the periodic examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and in some cases, we have received additional tax assessments. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. We may underestimate the outcome of such examinations which, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and financial condition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war, ongoing disturbances in the Middle East, an attack on Israel, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure due to power loss, telecommunications failure, human error, physical or electronic security breaches and computer viruses (which could leave us vulnerable to loss of our intellectual property and disruption of our business activities), and other events beyond our control. In 2008, we launched a business continuity program that is based on enterprise risk assessment which addresses the impact of natural, technological, man-made and geopolitical disasters on the Company’s critical business functions. This plan helps facilitate the continuation of critical business activities in the event of a disaster but may not prove to be sufficient. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables and managing our inventories. Over the past few years, we initiated significant investments in EMEA and Asia to expand our business in these regions. In EMEA and Asia, as with other international regions, credit terms are typically longer than in the United States. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow as a percentage of our revenues, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years. Although from time to time we have been able to largely offset the effects of these influences through additional incentives offered to channel partners at the end of each quarter in the form of prepay discounts, these additional incentives have lowered our profitability. In addition, the recent economic crisis, economic uncertainty or a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries has restricted the availability of capital, which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy. For example, our partner Nortel filed for bankruptcy in the first quarter of 2009, one of Asian distributors filed for bankruptcy in the third quarter of 2008, and one of our large European distributors filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2007. Either a delay in collections or bankruptcy would harm our cash flow and days sales outstanding performance. In addition, as we manage our business and focus on shorter shipment lead times for certain of our products and implement freight cost reduction programs, our inventory levels may increase, resulting in decreased inventory turns that could negatively impact our cash flow. We believe inventory turns will continue to fluctuate depending upon our ability to reduce lead times, as well as due to changes in anticipated product demand and product mix and a greater mix of ocean freight versus air freight to reduce freight costs. For instance, in the first quarter of 2008, our inventory levels increased significantly from the December 31, 2007 levels as a result of these factors. Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations and may be extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock has from time to time experienced significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: • statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business, including competitors, partners, suppliers or telecommunications industry leaders or relating to us specifically; • our recently announced plans to invest heavily in our business for future growth, which we expect, in the short-term, to affect our profitability; • the announcement of new products, product enhancements or acquisitions by us or by or of our competitors, such as the recent announcement by Cisco Systems of its plans to acquire Tandberg, our largest independent competitor; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; and • domestic and international macroeconomic factors, such as the credit crisis and recession currently being experienced in the United States and internationally. In addition, the stock market continues to experience significant price and volume fluctuations related to general economic, political and market conditions. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies like us and are often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. As with the stock of many other public companies, the market price of our common stock has been particularly volatile during the recent period of upheaval in the capital markets and world economy. This excessive volatility in our stock price is unpredictable and may continue for an indefinite period of time due to these extraordinary economic factors and instability in the global financial markets. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 