ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. If we fail to compete successfully domestically and internationally, our business and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Competition that we face in our markets is intense. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: • the ability to provide and sell a broad range of products and services that are responsive to changing technology and changing customer requirements; • price; • product performance; • the ability to introduce new products; • the ability to reduce production costs; • the ability to provide value-added features; • the ability to successfully integrate our products with, and operate our products on, existing customer platforms; • the ability to offer new products that require a more direct-touch sales model; • market presence and brand recognition; and • the ability to extend credit to our partners. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved performance characteristics. New product introductions by our current or future competitors, or our delay in bringing new products to market to compete with competitive products, could cause a significant decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products and future products. We believe that the possible effects from ongoing competition may be a reduction in the prices of our products and our competitors’ products, the introduction of additional lower priced competitive products or the introduction of new products or product platforms that render our existing products or technologies obsolete. For example, our video network systems product revenues had declined sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2006 as a result of sales lost to competitors as well as lower average selling prices due in part to competitive pressures. While revenues from our video network systems product revenues improved sequentially in the third and fourth quarters of 2006 and 2007, video network system product revenues declined sequentially again in the first and second quarters of 2007, and could decline again in the future. Competition that we face in our markets is intense and competition that we face in certain of our international markets is different than that we face in North America and is currently based principally on price. We have noted additional competitors and increased pricing pressures in China, India and other parts of Asia. If we are unable to compete effectively in these regions in terms of price, technology (where we believe the barriers to entry are getting lower), product offerings or marketing strategies, our overall financial results may suffer. Competition in each of our markets is intense, and our inability to compete effectively in any of these markets could negatively affect our results of operations. We face significant competition in the video solutions industry. For our video conferencing end points, our major competitors include Tandberg, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard and a number of other companies including Aethra, Avistar, D-Link, Huawei, Kedacom Technologies, LifeSize, NEC, Panasonic, Sony, VCON, VTEL and ZTE, as well as various smaller or new industry entrants. We face competition for sales of our RPX and TPX telepresence solutions and related services from Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Teleris and others. In addition, Microsoft recently launched products that will be competitive with our video conferencing products. Some of these companies have substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products, which may result in our having to increase our spending on marketing, and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies due to their size. In addition, with the increasing market acceptance of video communications, other established or new companies may develop or market products competitive with our video conferencing products, including companies with greater financial and other resources, greater brand recognition or greater access to top-level executives than we have, or may partner with companies which have more substantial resources and production, sales, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products and to bring their products to market more rapidly than we can, or that may be more adept in responding to rapidly changing market conditions or changing technologies than we are. These factors could negatively impact our video revenues as customers assess such new technologies or wait to make purchases until sales prices for such next generation products fall. Conversely, new product adoption may grow at such rates that we are unable to keep up with increasing demand due to our size, resources, need to establish new partnerships, or other factors. Also, new strategic partnerships are regularly being formed and announced by our competitors, such as the video partnership announced in January 2007 between Hewlett-Packard and Tandberg, which may increase competition and result in increased downward pressure on our product prices. Direct competition for telepresence product sales against larger competitors like Cisco Systems and Hewlett Packard may also result in increased downward pressure on our product prices, as well as cause us to invest more in sales and marketing in order to compete effectively. We have lost group video conferencing sales opportunities to our competitors, including Tandberg and to competitors in China who sell at lower price points than we do. We expect to continue to face stiff competition, and our competitors may gain market share from us, due in part to their strategic relationships and their latest product 13 Table of Contents offerings. In addition, we believe we will face increasing competition from alternative video communications solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies from companies such as Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Microsoft that enable web-based or network-based video and collaboration communications. In addition, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft or other large companies with resources substantially larger than ours could enter any of our markets through acquisition of a direct competitor, which would significantly change the competitive landscape. Further, the commoditization of certain video conferencing products could lead to the availability of alternative, lower-cost video conferencing products than ours and, accordingly, drive down our sales prices and negatively impact our revenues. Our video network systems products experience significant direct competition from RADVISION, Cisco Systems, which resells RADVISION’s products, Tandberg, which acquired Codian in August 2007, Huawei, and various smaller or new industry entrants. Tandberg’s acquisition of Codian may strengthen their network systems offerings and result in increased competition from Tandberg against our total video solutions offering, potentially causing a negative impact on our video solutions revenues, as well as our market position with respect to video conferencing and network systems offerings. Our video network systems product revenues declined sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2006 as well as in the first and second quarters of 2007 as a result of sales lost to competitors as well as lower average selling prices due in part to competitive pressures. Our voice network systems business has significant competition from companies such as Avaya, Cisco Systems, Compunetix, Convedia, as well as various smaller or new industry entrants. Although we launched our next generation video network system platform (RMX 2000) in 2007 and intend to launch new network services product offerings, including enhancements to existing products, in the future, these new product offerings may be delayed or may not have as much of a positive impact on our video solutions revenues as we anticipate. The market for voice communications equipment, including voice conferencing and desktop equipment, is highly competitive and also subject to rapid technological change, regulatory developments and emerging industry standards. We expect competition to persist and increase in the future in this area. In voice communications, our major conference phone competitors include Aethra, ClearOne Communications, Konftel, Mitel, Yamaha and other companies that offer lower cost, full-duplex speakerphones. Our major VoIP desktop competitors include Aastra, LG Nortel, Linksys, a division of Cisco Systems, Snom and Thompson, in addition to several low cost manufacturers in Asia and Europe that are emerging. We have also recently introduced a range of high definition VoIP devices from personal speakerphones to executive desktop devices enabling integration with Microsoft Office Communications Server 2007. Some of these products will directly compete with products offered by LG Nortel. In addition, there are PBX and IP Call Manager manufacturers that compete with standards based IP products including Alcatel, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Mitel, Nortel and Siemens. Furthermore, all major telephony manufacturers produce hands-free speakerphone units that cost less than our voice communications products. With respect to our wireless product lines, our product competition falls into four general categories: multi-user cordless telephone products, unlicensed multi-cell systems, cellular-based systems, and WLAN-based systems. We also now compete in the residential market (both wired and wireless DECT systems) primarily in Europe. Our primary competitors include Cisco Systems, Samsung and Hitachi Cable. The overall market in the consumer segment is highly competitive, and many of such competitors may have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, mature DECT standard-based products previously marketed by large telecom companies in markets outside the U.S. are being introduced in the U.S., which may be lower-priced than our Link and NetLink offerings. Enterprise adoption of standards for wireless LAN and VoIP may lead to the commoditization of wireless telephone technology and the availability of low-cost alternative products. Other purchasers may prefer to buy their wireless telephone systems from a single source provider of wireless local area networks, or LANs, such as Cisco Systems, who provides wireless infrastructure and wireless telephones. For our services business, we do not currently experience any significant competition from any third party maintenance and support companies, although many of our competitors in our various product lines offer strong 14 Table of Contents service offerings, particularly in overseas markets. We also may not be as well-situated as these competitors to scale and to compete as effectively in our services business, particularly in the international arena. Third party maintenance companies may become a threat to our service base in the future, as the industry grows and as they look at our products as potential third party service revenue streams, in addition to trying to provide one service solution to their customers. Today, some of our channel partners resell Polycom maintenance and support services, while others sell their own maintenance and support services. To the extent that channel partners sell their own services rather than ours, although they purchase maintenance contracts from us to support their service offering, these partners compete with us. In addition, as we expand our professional services offerings, we may compete more directly with system integrators. In addition, it is possible that we will see increased competition in all of our product lines to the extent that one or more of our competitors join together either through mutual agreement or acquisitions to form new partnerships to compete against us. These competitors on a stand-alone basis or on a combined basis could have more substantial financial resources and production, sales, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products. We face risks associated with developing and marketing our products, including new product development and new product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model. Our success depends on our ability to assimilate new technologies in our products and to properly train our channel partners, sales force and end-user customers in the use of those products. The markets for video solutions and voice communications products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as the recent demand for high definition video technology and lower cost network systems products, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction of new products, proper positioning of new products in relation to our total product portfolio and their relative pricing, our ability to price our products competitively while maintaining favorable product margins, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. Additionally, properly addressing the complexities associated with compatibility issues, channel partner and sales force training, technical and sales support, as well as field support, are also factors that may affect our success. Further, as our product portfolio expands and as we enter into product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model and that require more complex negotiations, such as our RPX and TPX product lines, we are making key strategic investments in additional sales and marketing personnel. It will require time for us to hire additional key sales and marketing talent in such numbers that we believe are required to compete effectively both domestically and internationally and then further time for such new personnel to receive training and to become familiar with our product lines and services. Ultimately, it is possible that our increased investments in this area may not yield the financial results that we hope to achieve from such investments or we may not be able to hire the type of sales and marketing talent that we intend to hire. We continually need to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion as to the desirability of the new product offering compared to our existing product offerings. During the last year, we launched several new product offerings, and there is a risk that these new products could cause confusion among our channel partners and end-users, thereby causing them to delay purchases of any product until they determine if these products are more desirable products than our other products. For instance, our recently introduced high definition video product family (HDX) may cause confusion with respect to our VSX product line. We also recently introduced our RMX 2000 conferencing platform, which provides the next generation of conferencing infrastructure and may cause confusion with respect to our MGC media servers, and the HDX4000™, our high definition executive desktop product, which could have a negative impact on sales of our existing executive desktop product. We believe that the anticipated announcement of our HDX8000™ video conferencing product, our high definition video conferencing product for small- to medium-sized conference rooms, temporarily delayed sales of our HDX9000™ video conferencing product, our high definition video conferencing product 15 Table of Contents intended for larger conference room settings, in the third quarter of 2007. Such delays in purchases could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and operating results in the period of the delay. Conversely, the introduction of new products such as the HDX 7000™ video conferencing product for smaller conference rooms and the HDX8000 video conferencing product may have an unintended negative effect on sales of and corresponding revenues associated with other video conferencing products such as our VSX and other HDX offerings. We and our channel partners must also effectively educate our potential end-user customers about the benefits of video conferencing and the products that we offer and the features available over those of our competitors. The shift in communications from circuit-switched to IP-based technologies over time may require us to add new channel partners, enter new markets and gain new core technological competencies. We are attempting to address these needs and the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts, through joint developments with other companies and through acquisitions. We may not identify successful new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely manner. Further, as we introduce new products that can or will render existing products obsolete, these product transition cycles may not go smoothly, causing an increased risk of inventory obsolescence and relationship issues with our end-user customers and channel partners. The failure of our new product development efforts, any inability to service or maintain the necessary third-party interoperability licenses, our inability to properly manage product transitions or to anticipate new product demand, or our inability to enter new markets would harm our business and results of operations. We may experience delays in product introductions and our products may contain defects which could seriously harm our results of operations. We have experienced delays in the introduction of certain new products and enhancements in the past and have recently experienced delays in the introduction of certain of our high definition video conferencing products, such as the HDX9000 in the fourth quarter of 2007. The delays in product release dates that we experienced in the past were due to factors such as unforeseen technology issues, manufacturing ramping issues and other factors, which we believe negatively impacted our sales revenue in the relevant periods. Any of these or other factors may occur again and delay our future product releases. In addition, we have occasionally terminated new product development efforts prior to any introduction of the new product. Our product development groups are dispersed among California, Colorado, Georgia, Massachusetts and Texas in the United States, as well as in China, Denmark, India and Israel. Our need to manage large and geographically dispersed product development groups in our product lines results in certain inefficiencies and increased product development costs and creates an increased risk of delays in new product introductions. We produce highly complex communications equipment, which includes both hardware and software and incorporates new technologies and component parts from different suppliers. Resolving product defect and technology issues could cause delays in new product introduction. In addition, many of the complex products that we now provide due to our SpectraLink acquisition can only be fully tested when deployed in “live” existing wireless networks. As a result, end-users may only discover defects or errors or experience breakdowns in their networks after the products have been deployed. Further, if such defects are not detected or cured prior to a new product launch, or are detected after a product has already been launched and cannot be cured or result in a product recall, such as our voluntary recall of the lithium ion batteries in our SoundStation 2W™ products in the first quarter of 2006, these events could result in the failure of a partial or entire product line or a temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from the market. We may also have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems, including product reengineering expenses and inventory, warranty and replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Any delays in the future for new product offerings currently under development or any product defect issues or product recalls could adversely affect the market acceptance of these products (and correspondingly result in loss of market share), our ability to compete effectively in the market, and our reputation, and therefore, could 16 Table of Contents lead to decreased product sales and could seriously harm our results of operations. We may also experience cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-user customers. We face risks related to the adoption rate of new technologies. We have invested significant resources developing products that are dependent on the adoption rate of new technologies. For example, our SoundStation IP and SoundPoint IP products are dependent on the roll out of voice-over-IP, or VoIP, technologies. In addition, VoIP products are traditionally sold through service providers. We may not be successful in expanding our current service provider network or maintaining a successful service provider network. The success of our HDX4000, VSX 3000 and PVX software application products depends on the increased use of desktop video collaboration technologies. Further, as we see the adoption rate of new technologies increase, product sales of our legacy products may be negatively impacted. Due to the SpectraLink acquisition, we now face risks related to our ability to respond to rapid technological changes within the on-premises wireless telephone industry. The wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and evolving industry standards. The success of all of our products is also dependent on how quickly Session Initiation Protocol (or SIP), which is a signaling protocol for Internet conferencing, telephony, presence, events notification and instant messaging, firewall and Network Address Translation (or NAT) traversal, which is an Internet standard that enables a local-area network (or LAN) to use one set of IP addresses for internal traffic and a second set of addresses for external traffic, and call management integration technologies are deployed as new technologies and how quickly we adopt and integrate these new technologies into our existing and future products. The success of our V2IU™ and firewall traversal solutions will depend on market acceptance and the effect of current and potential competitors and competitive products. In addition, we develop new products or product enhancements based upon anticipated demand for new features and functionality, such as next generation high definition video resolution technology. We may not be able to sell certain of our products in significant volumes and our business may be harmed if the use of new technologies that our future products are based on does not occur; if the development of suitable sales channels does not occur, or occurs more slowly than expected; if our products that incorporate new technologies are not priced competitively or are not readily adopted; or if the adoption rates of such new technologies do not drive demand for our other products as we anticipate. For example, although we believe increased sales of group and desktop video solutions will drive increased demand for video network system products, such increased demand may not occur or we may not benefit to the same extent as our competitors. We also may not be successful in creating demand in our installed customer base, such as customers who have our legacy SoundStation products, for products that we develop that incorporate new technologies or features. We may not successfully execute on our vision of product requirements because of errors in defining product marketing requirements, planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. Due to the competitive nature of our business, any failure by us to meet any of these challenges could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, and operating results. A lower than anticipated rate of acceptance of domestic and international markets using the 802.11 standard or the emergence of competing standards may impede the growth of our wireless handsets or, if the market adoption of 802.11 standards occur more quickly than anticipated, the market for certain other SpectraLink product lines may decline. Our NetLink wireless telephones that we acquired as part of the SpectraLink acquisition are compatible with the IEEE 802.11 standard for use on 802.11 compliant wireless LAN networks. Consequently, demand for NetLink wireless telephones depends upon the acceptance of markets utilizing 802.11-compliant networks. This depends in part upon the initial adoption of the 802.11 standard in international markets, as well as enhancements 17 Table of Contents to that standard in the U.S. and foreign markets where the standard has already been adopted. Additionally, the acceptance of 802.11 compliant networks may move more slowly, if at all, if competing wireless networks are established and utilized. Additionally, the deployment of wireless voice and data systems has been inhibited by security concerns including the potential of unauthorized access to data and communications transmitted over or accessible through a wireless system. Potential customers may choose not to purchase our wireless products until wireless systems are developed which provide for greater security. Further, our wireless products may not be compatible with secure wireless systems that may be developed in the future. If markets utilizing 802.11 compliant networks do not grow as we anticipate, our product growth in this area would be impeded and we would not be able to factor the related revenue into our growth in the future. If the 802.11 standard does not emerge as the dominant wireless standard in our markets, or multiple standards are adopted that require different technologies, we may need to spend time and resources to add functionality to meet the additional standards and many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Further, to the extent that additional standards are adopted, our product differentiation could be minimized and our implementation may not be interoperable with the standard, necessitating additional product development to meet the standard which may cause product delays. Conversely, if the market adoption of 802.11 standards is faster than anticipated, it may affect sales of DECT technology and Link WTS, proprietary technology that we also recently acquired through the SpectraLink acquisition. Sales of SpectraLink’s Link product have not been increasing in recent years and could be negatively impacted in the future by the adoption of 802.11 and purchases of our NetLink products. DECT solutions could face the same competition and cause a downward trend in our SpectraLink product sales growth and our overall gross margin in such product lines. The market for on-premises wireless telephone systems may fail to grow or to grow as quickly as we anticipated when we acquired SpectraLink. If this market does not grow or grows quickly, our future results of operations could be harmed. In particular, increased demand for our new NetLink product depends on the growth of the voice over Wi-Fi-related market. The market for deployment of converged voice and data wireless networks in the general enterprise continues to be immature. We expect that this will remain the case unless that market moves through its acceptance of IP wireless applications, standards adoption increases to reduce complexity, and customers deploy wireless IP access points more fully throughout their enterprise networks in densities required to support wireless voice traffic. Accordingly, the transition to NetLink and its potential impact on sales of our Link product are difficult to predict. The certification and approval process for our NetLink product for use in countries that support the 802.11 standard is lengthy and often unpredictable. Foreign countries which adopt the 802.11 standard could provide future markets for our new NetLink products. However, countries’ certification and approval processes for 802.11 compatible products such as NetLink are typically time consuming and potentially costly. If we have difficulty or experience delays in obtaining certification and approval by foreign countries for our NetLink wireless telephone product, then we and/or our distributor channels may not be able to gain access to the markets in these countries in a timely fashion, if at all, which would limit international growth of our NetLink product line. Lower than expected market acceptance of our products, price competition and other price changes would negatively impact our business. If the market does not accept our products, particularly our new product offerings which we are relying on for future revenues, such as our new high definition products, our profitability would likely be harmed. Further, new products typically have lower gross margins for a period of time after their introduction, and we’ve recently launched a number of new products and new products are becoming an increasing percentage of our revenues. For example, our HD video products, which generate higher gross profit dollars than our other non-HD video products due to higher average selling prices, may result in a lower overall gross margin percentage for an extended period of time after their introduction depending upon the mix of new products sold during the period. 18 Table of Contents Our profitability could also be negatively affected in the future as a result of continuing competitive price pressures in the sale of video and voice conferencing equipment and network systems, which could cause us to reduce the prices for any of these products or discontinue one product with the intent of simplifying our product offering and enhancing sales of a similar product. For example, we believe that the sequential declines in video network system revenues that we experienced from the fourth quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2006 and again in the first and second quarters of 2007 are due in part to lower average selling prices as a result of increased competitive pressures. Further, we have reduced prices in the past in order to expand the market for our products, and in the future, we may further reduce prices, introduce new products that carry lower margins in order to expand the market or stimulate demand for our products, or discontinue existing products as a means of stimulating growth in a similar product. In addition, we anticipate that our gross margins may become more difficult to predict due to these types of changes, the wide range of margins associated with each of our product lines, and shifts in the mix of products sold. Our network systems products typically have higher gross margins than our other product lines. Therefore, our gross margins could decrease if we continue to experience decreases in our network systems product sales. For example, in the first quarter of 2007, gross margins for our network systems products were the lowest we have ever experienced and below our targeted range. Further, if our network systems sales suffer, a correspondingly negative impact may be had on our services business, which relies in part on network systems sales for its success. Finally, if we do not fully anticipate, understand and fulfill the needs of end-user customers in the vertical markets that we serve, we may not be able to fully capitalize on product sales into those vertical markets and our revenues may, accordingly, fail to grow as anticipated or may be adversely impacted. Product obsolescence and excess inventory can negatively affect our results of operations. We operate in a high technology industry which is subject to rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes. These changes can often render existing or developing technologies obsolete. In addition, the introduction of new products and any related actions to discontinue existing products can cause existing inventory to become obsolete. These obsolescence issues can require write-downs in inventory value when it is determined that the recorded value of existing inventory is greater than its fair market value, such as we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2005 with excess ViewStation® inventory and in the third quarter of 2006 with excess QSX™ and ViewStation inventory. Further, as customers transition to our HDX video conferencing endpoints from our VSX video conferencing endpoints or to our RMX platform from our MGC infrastructure products, we may experience write-downs in inventory value of these products in the future. Also, the pace of change in technology development and in the release of new products has increased and is expected to continue to increase. If sales of one of these products has an unplanned negative effect on sales of another of our products, it could significantly increase the inventory levels of the negatively impacted product. For each of our products, the potential exists for new products to render existing products obsolete, cause inventories of existing products to increase, cause us to discontinue a product or reduce the demand for existing products. Failure to adequately service and support our product offerings could harm our results of operations. Our products are becoming increasingly more complex and are incorporating more complex technologies, such as those included in our network systems products, our new video product offerings and our software products. This has increased the need for enhanced product warranty and service capabilities. If we cannot adequately develop and train our internal support organization or maintain our relationship with our outside technical support provider, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, sales of our telepresence product line is a more complex sales transaction, and the end-user customer in such transactions typically purchases an enhanced level of support service from us so that it can ensure that this significant investment can be fully operational and satisfy the end-user’s requirements. This requires an enhanced level of support from the company in terms of resources and technical knowledge of an end-user customer’s telecommunication network. As this type of service is relatively new for us, our inability to provide the proper level of support on a cost beneficial basis may cause damage to our reputation in this new emerging market and may, as a result, harm our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations. We have acquired several businesses, which together resulted in goodwill valued at approximately $505.0 million and other purchased intangible assets valued at approximately $86.4 million as of December 31, 2007. This represents a significant portion of the assets recorded on our balance sheet and reflects significant increases in 2007 as a result of the Destiny and SpectraLink acquisitions. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or sooner under certain circumstances. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating fundamentals, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a charge to operations will not occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values, as we did in the fourth quarters of 2007 and 2006, when we wrote down certain intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Voyant in the amount of $3.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively. If and when these write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have made investments in private companies which we classify as “Other assets” on our balance sheet. The value of these investments is influenced by many factors, including the operating effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies’ industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. To date, due to these and other factors, we have recorded cumulative charges against earnings totaling $21.5 million associated with the impairment of such investments, including $7.4 million in the second quarter of 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our investments in private companies are valued at $1.7 million. We may make additional investments in private companies which would be subject to similar impairment risks, and these impairment risks may cause us to write down the recorded value of any such investments. Further, we cannot assure you that future inventory, investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not happen. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and are not necessarily a good indicator of future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the impact of increasing negative macroeconomic indicators; • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, principally due to (i) the changing global economic environment, (ii) increased competition as we have seen in Asia, particularly in China and India, across all product lines and globally with respect to video solutions product lines, (iii) the development of new partnerships, such as the relationships between Tandberg and Cisco Systems and Tandberg and Hewlett-Packard in our video product line, and (iv) increased competition from larger companies like Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard; • the prices and performance of our products and those of our existing or potential new competitors, which can change rapidly due to technological innovations; • the timing, size and mix of the orders for our products; • the impact of new product introductions which typically have lower gross margins for a period of time after their introduction; • whether growth of our VoIP product sales will negatively impact sales of our circuit-switched products and whether VoIP product sales will serve as an effective driver for sales of our IP-based video solutions, as we anticipate; • changes in tax rates due to, among other things, the timing and geographical mix of the earnings; 20 Table of Contents • changes in the underlying factors and assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables used in the option-pricing model to determine stock-based compensation which may result in significant variability in the stock-based compensation costs we record, making such amounts difficult to accurately predict; • slowing sales by our channel partners to their customers, which places further pressure on our channel partners to minimize inventory levels and reduce purchases of our products; • changes to our channel partner programs, contracts and strategy that could result in a reduction in the number of channel partners or could cause more of our channel partners to add our competitors’ products to their portfolio; • the impact of introducing product lines that require a more direct-touch sales model which is expensive; • the level and mix of inventory that we hold to meet future demand; • fluctuations in the level of international sales and our exposure to the impact of international currency fluctuations on both revenues and expenses; • dependence on third party manufacturers, which would include outside development manufacturers, and associated manufacturing costs; • the magnitude of any costs that we must incur in the event of a product recall or of costs associated with product warranty claims; • the impact of seasonality on our various product lines and geographic regions; • the impairment of strategic investments or other assets; and • adverse outcomes in intellectual property litigation and other matters and the costs associated with asserting and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio. As a result of these and potentially other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market securities analysts or investors, our stock price will likely decline. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our business. Economic conditions worldwide have contributed from time to time to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries, as well as have caused a negative impact on the specific segments and markets in which we operate. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly exposed to these adverse changes in general economic conditions which can result in reductions in capital expenditures by end-user customers for our products, longer sales cycles, the deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased competition. These factors have adversely impacted our operating results in prior years. Any recurrence of these events could have a similar effect. For example, the recent financial services crisis in the United States and other current negative macroeconomic indicators, such as the predictions of a possible recession in the United States or other economic downturns in global markets, could adversely affect our business. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions could adversely impact our business. Difficulties in integrating past or potential future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed a number of acquisitions during our operating history, including our acquisitions of Destiny and SpectraLink in the first quarter of 2007. The process of integrating acquired companies into our operations requires significant resources and is time consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. For instance, we experienced such disruption in the second quarter of 2007 where our year-over-year revenue growth 21 Table of Contents in our voice business, excluding SpectraLink revenues, was more modest than experienced over the last several years and even declined sequentially by 2%. We believe that such disruption continued to have an ongoing impact for the remainder of 2007 and contributed to our lower than normal sequential growth in the U.S. We have also experienced, and may continue to experience, unique legal, geographic or other issues in connection with the continuing integration of SpectraLink’s Danish subsidiary, KIRK telecom. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, to retain key personnel, or to successfully integrate the operations of these companies could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions because of the following significant challenges: • potentially incompatible cultural differences between the two companies; • incorporating the acquired company’s technology and products into our current and future product lines; • potential deterioration of the acquired company’s product sales and corresponding revenues due to integration activities and management distraction; • potentially creating confusion in the marketplace by ineffectively distinguishing or marketing the product offerings of the newly acquired company with our existing product lines, such as we experienced in China with DSTMedia in 2005; • geographic dispersion of operations; • interruption of manufacturing operations as we transition an acquired company’s manufacturing to our outsourced manufacturing model; • generating marketing demand for an expanded product line; • distraction of the existing and acquired sales force during the integration of the companies; • the difficulty in leveraging the acquired company’s and our combined technologies and capabilities across all product lines and customer bases; and • our inability to retain previous customers or employees of an acquired company. Further, certain of our acquisition agreements incorporate earn-out provisions in them. Such earn-out provisions entitle the former shareholders of the acquired companies to receive additional consideration upon the satisfaction of certain predetermined criteria. It is possible that disputes over unpaid earn-out amounts may result in litigation to the company, which could be costly and cause management distraction. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources identifying and acquiring businesses. The efficient and effective integration of our acquired businesses into our organization is critical to our growth. Any of our recent and future acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, particularly when dealing with the integration of large and complex organizations such as SpectraLink, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of the companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additional costs associated with past acquisitions or any future acquisitions we may make. Our failure to successfully implement restructuring plans related to vacant and redundant facilities could adversely impact our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, as part of acquiring a company, identify redundant facilities, which we would develop a plan to exit as part of the integration of the businesses. For example, as of December 31, 2007 we have a remaining liability in the amount of $2.2 million related to facilities we intend to vacate in connection with our recent acquisition of SpectraLink. This reserve is net of estimated sublease income we expect to generate. Our estimate of sublease income is based on current comparable rates for leases in the respective markets. If actual sublease income is lower than our estimates for any reason, if it takes us longer than 22 Table of Contents we estimated to sublease these facilities, or if the associated cost of subleasing or terminating our lease obligations for these facilities is greater than we estimated, we would incur additional charges to operations which would harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any such cash outflows or additional costs exceed the amount of our recorded liability related to the sublease or termination of these lease obligations, we could incur a charge to operations which would harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. We experience seasonal demand for our products and services, which may adversely impact our results of operations during certain periods. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our third and first quarters. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the European region in the third quarter of each year and sales to government entities typically slow in our fourth quarter and to a greater extent in our first quarter. In addition, sales of our video conferencing products have historically declined in the first quarter of the year compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year, although this was not the case in the first quarter of 2007. We also saw a sequential decrease in group video conferencing unit sales in Europe and Asia in the third quarter of 2006 and in Asia in the third quarter of 2007, which we believe may be attributable to seasonality. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales may occur at the end of a quarter and certain of our service provider contracts include contractual acceptance provisions. The timing of our channel partner orders and product shipments and our ability to reduce expenses quickly can result in harm our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend in large part upon the volume and timing of channel partner orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as revenue during each quarter, each of which is extremely difficult to forecast. We are also beginning to experience longer sales cycles in connection with our high end video conferencing solutions sales, which could also increase the level of unpredictability and fluctuation in the timing of orders. Further, depending upon the complexity of these solutions, such as telepresence and some network systems products, and the underlying contractual terms, revenue may not be recognized until the product has been accepted by the end-user, resulting in further revenue unpredictability. Moreover, although we have seen better sales linearity throughout 2006 and 2007, a significant portion of our orders in a given quarter are shipped in the last month of that quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of the quarter. Our backlog has fluctuated significantly over our corporate history. While our product backlog has increased in recent years, we typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order. In addition, we believe that backlog levels will continue to fluctuate due to many factors such as the ability of our sales force to generate orders linearly throughout the quarter, our ability to forecast revenue mix and plan our manufacturing capacity, customer request dates, timing of product acceptance where contractually required and ongoing service deferrals as service revenues increase as a percent of total revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could significantly negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. As a result, our backlog could decline in future quarters, even to zero, and we do not believe backlog is a good indicator of future operating results. Any degradation in linearity levels or any failure or delay in the closing of orders during the last part of a quarter would materially harm our operating results. Furthermore, we may be unable to ship products in the period we receive the order due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our expectations for both short and long-term future revenues are based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand and not on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, the majority of our audio and video network system orders are received in the last month 23 Table of Contents of a quarter, typically the last few weeks of that quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. Accordingly, if for any reason orders and revenues do not meet our expectations in a particular period, we will be limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly, and any significant shortfall in demand for our products in relation to our expectations would have an adverse impact on our operating results. Delays in receiving contractual acceptance may cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue, depending upon the timing and shipment of orders under such contracts. Certain of our sales contracts include product acceptance provisions which vary depending upon the type of product and individual terms of the contract. In addition, acceptance criteria may be required in other contracts in the future, depending upon the size and complexity of the sale and the type of products ordered. Accordingly, we defer revenue until the underlying acceptance criteria in any given contract have been met. Depending upon the acceptance terms, the timing of the receipt and subsequent shipment of an order may result in acceptance delays, may reduce the predictability of our revenues, and, consequently, may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations in any particular quarter. We face risks related to our dependence on channel partners to sell our products. To avoid confusion by our channel partners regarding our product offerings, we need to continually devote significant resources to educating and training them. When we take any significant actions regarding our product offerings, or acquire new product offerings, it is important to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion on the desirability of the new product offering in relation to our existing product offerings. For instance, integrating acquired product offerings with ours has created confusion among our channel partners in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We will need to continue to devote significant resources to educate and train our channel partners about our product offerings. We have recently launched our HDX video conferencing products, our new RMX conferencing platform and have added additional products through the acquisitions of SpectraLink and Destiny which continue to require significant resources and training to educate our channels. Channel confusion could also occur if we do not adequately train or educate the channel on our product families, especially in the cases where we simplify our product offerings by discontinuing one product in order to stimulate growth of a similar product. Ongoing confusion may lead to delays in ordering our products, which would negatively affect our revenues. Conflicts and competition with our channel partners and strategic partners could hurt sales of our products. We have various Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) agreements with major telecommunications equipment manufacturers, such as Avaya, Cisco Systems and Nortel Networks, whereby we manufacture our products to work with the equipment of the OEM. These relationships can create conflicts with our other channel partners who directly compete with our OEM partners, or could create conflicts among our OEM partners who compete with each other, which could adversely affect revenues from these other channel partners or our OEM partners. Conflicts among our OEM partners could also make continued partnering with these OEM partners increasingly difficult, or our OEM partners, including large competitors such as Cisco Systems, may decide to develop products of their own that compete with ours in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because many of our channel partners also sell equipment that competes with our products, these channel partners could devote more attention to these other products which could harm our business. Further, as we move to a more direct-touch sales model, we may alienate some of our channel partners or cause a shift in product sales from our traditional channel model as these traditional relationships evolve over time. Due to these and other factors, channel conflicts could arise which cause channel partners to devote resources to other non Polycom communications equipment, or to offer new products from our new and existing competitors, which would negatively affect our business or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Some of our current and future products are directly competitive with the products sold by both our channel and strategic partners. For example, we have an agreement with Cisco Systems under which we ship SoundStation IP conference phones for resale by Cisco Systems. In addition, Cisco Systems sells a network systems product which is in direct competition with our network systems offerings. Also, Cisco Systems has a partnership with Tandberg, one of our major competitors in the video solutions business, pursuant to which Tandberg provides Cisco Systems with technology that is co-branded and sold by Cisco Systems. Cisco Systems has also announced a new high end video conferencing product which is in direct competition with our video conferencing solutions. With our acquisition of SpectraLink, we also compete with Cisco Systems in the WLAN space. As a consequence of conflicts such as these, there is the potential for our channel and strategic partners to compete head-to-head with us and to significantly reduce or eliminate their orders of our products or design our technology out of their products. Further, some of our products are reliant on strategic partnerships with call servers providers and wireless infrastructure providers. These partnerships result in interoperable features between products to deliver a total solution to our mutual end-user customers. Competition with our partners in all of the markets in which we operate is likely to increase, potentially resulting in strains on our existing relationships with these companies. As an example, we are now competing in the voice-over-IP handset arena through service providers, which may cause our relationships with our IP PBX strategic partners to erode. In addition, due to increasing competition with us for sales of video conferencing equipment, Cisco Systems may decide to terminate its relationship with us to resell our SoundStation IP conference phones or eliminate the interoperability of its wireless access points with our NetLink wireless telephones. Further, our strategic partners may acquire businesses that are competitive with us. Any such strain or acquisition could limit the potential contribution of our strategic relationships to our business, restrict our ability to form strategic relationships with these companies in the future and create additional competitive pressures on us, including downward pressure on our average selling prices, which would result in a decrease in both revenues and gross margins, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a recurrence of global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenues would be negatively affected. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory, due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenues in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, or product returns may exceed historical or predicted levels, which would harm our business. Moreover, if we choose to eliminate or reduce special cost or stocking incentive programs, quarterly revenues may fail to meet our expectations or be lower than historical levels. Our revenue estimates associated with products stocked by some of our channel partners are based largely on end-user sales reports that our channel partners provide to us on a monthly basis. To date, we believe this data has been generally accurate. To the extent that this sales-out and channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received timely, we may not be able to make revenue estimates for future periods. Potential changes to our channel partner programs or channel partner contracts may not be favorably received and as a result our channel partner relationships and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our channel partners are eligible to participate in various incentive programs, depending upon their contractual arrangements with us. As part of these arrangements, we have the right to make changes in our programs and launch new programs as business conditions warrant. Further, from time to time, we may make 25 Table of Contents changes to our channel partner contracts. These changes could upset our channel partners to the extent that they could add competitive products to their portfolios, delay advertising or sales of our products, or shift more emphasis to selling our competitors products, if not appropriately handled. There can be no assurance that our channel partners will be receptive to future changes and that we will receive the positive benefits that we are anticipating in making these program and contractual changes. Consolidation of our channel partners may result in changes to our overall business relationships and less favorable contractual terms. We have recently seen consolidation among certain of our existing channel partners. In such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity. Further, our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be limited. For instance, the combined entity may be successful in negotiating the most favorable contractual terms out of each of their respective contracts, including terms such as credit and acceptance, which are less favorable than those in our existing contracts with each channel partner. Depending on the extent of these changes, the timing and extent of revenue from these channel partners may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the success of the businesses of our channel partners. Many of our channel partners that carry multiple Polycom products, and from whom we derive significant revenues, are thinly capitalized. Although we perform ongoing evaluations of the creditworthiness of our channel partners, the failure of these businesses to establish and sustain profitability, obtain financing or adequately fund capital expenditures could have a significant negative effect on our future revenue levels and profitability and our ability to collect our receivables. In addition, economic uncertainty, a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries, and the current financial services crisis may restrict the availability of capital which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy. For example, one of our large European distributors filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2007. Our channel partner contracts are typically short-term and early termination of these contracts may harm our results of operations. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our channel partners, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our channel partners. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the channel partner. In the event of an early termination by one of our major channel partners, we believe that the end-user customer would likely purchase from another one of our channel partners. If this did not occur and we were unable to rapidly replace that revenue source, its loss would harm our results of operations. If revenues from sales to our service provider customers decrease significantly from prior periods, our results of operations may suffer materially. Service providers constitute some of the larger end-user customers of our voice network systems products, and we experience significant quarterly variability in the timing and amount of these orders. The revenues for network systems products from service providers are subject to more variability than network systems product revenues from our channel partners. The loss of any one of these service provider customers for our network systems products, or our failure to adequately maintain or grow the level of network systems-related product sales to service providers, could have a materially adverse impact on our consolidated revenues. 26 Table of Contents We face risks related to our international operations and sales. Because of our significant operations in Israel, we are subject to risks associated with the military and political environment in Israel and the Middle East region. The principal research and development and manufacturing facilities for our network systems products and many of the suppliers for such products are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region directly affect our network systems group’s operations. A number of armed conflicts have taken place and continue to take place between Israel and its geographic neighbors. As a result, certain of our employees have been called to active military duty, and additional employees may be called to serve in the future. Current and future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may impair our ability to produce and sell our network systems products and could disrupt research or developmental activities. For example, a key supplier’s operations were interrupted and had to be relocated during the second quarter of 2006. This instability could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, the military action in Iraq or other countries in the region perceived as a threat by the United States government could result in additional unrest or cause Israel to be attacked, which would adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses and risks inherent in international operations could harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses, and we anticipate that international sales will continue to increase and to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future and that international operating expenses will continue to increase. International sales and expenses are subject to certain inherent risks, including the following: • adverse economic conditions in international markets; • potential foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • the near and long-term impact of the instability in Iraq or other hostilities; • disruptions in business due to natural disasters, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases or other events beyond our control; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • adverse economic impact of terrorist attacks and incidents and any military response to those attacks; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in competing effectively for international sales against international competitors; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. International revenues may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in the future as we introduce new products. These fluctuations are primarily the result of our practice of introducing new products in North America first and the additional time required for product homologation and regulatory approvals of new products in international markets. To the extent we are unable to expand international sales in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Although, to date, a substantial majority of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. currency, we expect that a growing number of sales will be denominated in non-U.S. currencies as more international customers request billing in their currency. Commencing in January 2006, we established local currency pricing in the European Union and the United Kingdom whereby we price and invoice our products and services in Euros and British Pounds. In addition, some of our competitors currently invoice in foreign currency, which could be a 27 Table of Contents disadvantage to us in those markets where we do not. Our international operating expenses are denominated in foreign currency. As a result of these factors, we expect our business will be significantly more vulnerable to currency fluctuations, which could adversely impact our results of operations. For instance, particularly in the second quarter of 2006 and third quarter of 2007, our international operating costs increased as a result of the weakness in the U.S. dollar. These currency fluctuations were recorded in other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will continue to evaluate whether to, and are likely to decide to, expand the type of products we sell in selected foreign currencies in addition to the Euro and British Pound or may, for specific customer situations, choose to sell our products in foreign currencies, thereby further increasing our foreign exchange risk. While we do not hedge for speculative purposes, as a result of our increased exposure to currency fluctuations, we from time to time engage in currency hedging activities to mitigate currency fluctuation exposure. Also, due to the denomination of our European product sales in Euros and of our United Kingdom product sales in British Pounds, we have increased our hedging activity. However, we have limited experience with these hedging activities, and they may not be successful, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, significant adverse changes in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in revenue or profitability in that country, as discounts may be temporarily or permanently affected. Difficulties we may encounter managing a substantially larger business could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, including the additional sales personnel we plan to hire in 2008 and the retention of key sales personnel as we move to a more direct-touch sales model. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. In addition, the success of our planned expansion of our sales force is also dependent upon their ability to achieve certain productivity levels in an acceptable timeframe and any inability to do so could be disruptive to our business and have a material adverse impact on our operating results. For instance, we believe that execution by the sales team in the third quarter of 2007 was adversely impacted by distraction caused in part by the shift to a direct-touch sales model as well as due to the ongoing integration of the SpectraLink operations at that time. From time to time, we may also decide to replace certain key personnel or make changes in certain senior management positions, particularly as we continue to grow to meet market demands, or make organizational changes such as we did in 2007, when we created the Video Solutions organization, through the combination of our Video and Network Systems divisions. In addition, in January 2008 we reorganized our U.S. sales organization resulting in changes in certain key sales management positions. Such transitions may be disruptive to the affected function and our business, possibly on a longer term basis than we expect, particularly as the reorganized team, many of whom have not worked together previously, learns to work together effectively, and could divert management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. Further, we may not experience the operating efficiencies in product planning, research, and development or sales productivity that the reorganization is intended to achieve, particularly in light of the current U.S. economic uncertainty. The loss of key employees, including key employees from our recently acquired companies, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly technical and management, as needed, could harm our business. In addition, as we add more complex software product offerings, it will become increasingly important to retain and attract individuals who are skilled in managing and developing these complex software product offerings. Further, many of our key employees in Israel, who are responsible for development of our network systems products, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and may be called to active duty at any 28 Table of Contents time under emergency conditions. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key technical or management personnel could have an adverse and disruptive impact on their affected function and, consequently, materially harm our business or operations. We have experienced significant growth in our business and operations due to internal expansion and business acquisitions, and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and any future growth, our operating results will be negatively affected. Our business has grown in recent years through both internal expansion and business acquisitions, including our acquisitions of SpectraLink and Destiny in 2007, and continued growth may cause a significant strain on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including information technology and financial operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. Our productivity and the quality of our products may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations, all of which add to the complexity of our organization and increase our operating expenses. We also may be less able to predict and effectively control our operating expenses due to the growth and increasing complexity of our business. In addition, our information technology systems may not grow at a sufficient rate to keep up with the processing and information demands placed on them by a much larger company. The efforts to continue to expand our information technology systems or our inability to do so could harm our business. For instance, in the second quarter of 2008, we plan to begin upgrading our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems to meet the growing demands of our business which, if such upgrades are not effectively or timely completed, could cause harm to our ongoing business operations. Further, revenues may not grow at a sufficient rate to absorb the costs associated with a larger overall headcount. Our future growth may require significant additional resources given that, as we increase our business operations in complexity and scale, we may have insufficient management capabilities and internal bandwidth to manage our growth and business effectively. We cannot assure you that resources will be available when we need them or that we will have sufficient capital to fund these potential resource needs. Also, as we assess our resources following our acquisitions, we will likely determine that redundancy in certain areas will require consolidation of these resources. Any organizational disruptions associated with the consolidation process could require further management attention and financial expenditures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, if we experience a shortfall in resources or if we must take additional restructuring charges, our results of operations will be harmed. We have limited supply sources for some key components of our products and for the outside development and manufacture of certain of our products, and our operations could be harmed by supply interruptions, component defects or unavailability of these components or products. Some key components used in our products are currently available from only one source and others are available from only a limited number of sources, including some key integrated circuits and optical elements. Because of such limited sources for component parts, we may have little or no ability to procure these parts on favorable pricing terms. We also obtain certain plastic housings, metal castings, batteries, and other components from suppliers located in China and certain Southeast Asia countries, and any political or economic instability in that region in the future, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or future import restrictions, may cause delays or an inability to obtain these supplies. Further, we have suppliers in Israel and the military action in Iraq or war with other Middle Eastern countries perceived as a threat by the United States government may cause delays or an inability to obtain supplies for our network systems products. We have no raw material supply commitments from our suppliers and generally purchase components on a purchase order basis either directly or through our contract manufacturers. Some of the components included in our products, such as microprocessors and other integrated circuits, have from time to time been subject to 29 Table of Contents limited allocations by suppliers. In addition, companies with limited or uncertain financial resources manufacture some of these components. Further, we do not always have direct control over the supply chain, as many of our component parts are procured for us by our contract manufacturers. In the event that we, or our contract manufacturers, are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of components, develop alternative sources as needed, or companies with limited financial resources go out of business, our operating results could be seriously harmed. Moreover, our operating results would be seriously harmed by receipt of a significant number of defective components or components that fail to fully comply with environmental or other regulatory requirements, an increase in component prices, such as the recent price increases for components that are in compliance with the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) rules in Europe, or our inability to obtain lower component prices in response to competitive price reductions. Additionally, our HDX video conferencing products are designed based on integrated circuits produced by Texas Instruments and cameras produced by JVC. Our VSX video conferencing products are designed based on integrated circuits produced by Equator Technologies, a subsidiary of Pixelworks Inc., and cameras produced by Sony. If we could no longer obtain integrated circuits or cameras from these suppliers, we would incur substantial expense and take substantial time in redesigning our products to be compatible with components from other manufacturers, and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in obtaining these components from alternative sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. Additionally, Sony competes with us in the video communications industry, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary components. The failure to obtain adequate supplies of vital components could prevent or delay product shipments, which could harm our business. We also rely on the introduction schedules of some key components in the development or launch of new products. Any delays in the availability of these key components could harm our business. Further, we have strategic relationships with third parties to develop and manufacture certain products for us. The loss of any such strategic relationship due to competitive reasons, our inability to resolve any contractual disputes that may arise between us, the financial instability of a strategic partner, or other factors, could have a negative impact on our ability to produce and sell certain products and product lines and, consequently, may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Finally, the business failure or financial instability of any supplier of these components or product manufacturer could adversely affect our cash flows if we were to expend funds in some manner to ensure the continued supply of those components or products. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints would harm our business. We subcontract the manufacture of our voice products, including our recently acquired SpectraLink products, and video product lines to Celestica, a third-party contract manufacturer. We use Celestica’s facilities in Thailand, China and Singapore, and should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, terrorist acts, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or economic or political difficulties in any of these countries or Asia or any other reason, such disruption would harm our business and results of operations. Also, Celestica’s facilities are currently the manufacturer for substantially all of these products, which means we are essentially sole-sourced for the manufacturing of such products, and if Celestica experiences an interruption in operations, suffers from capacity constraints, which may include constraints based on production demands from us as we grow our business, or is otherwise unable to meet our current or future production requirements we would experience a delay or inability to ship our products, which would have an immediate negative impact on our revenues. Moreover, any incapacitation of a manufacturing site due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation. In addition, operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We have recently transitioned the manufacturing of the products acquired as a result of the SpectraLink acquisition, which products were previously manufactured in Boulder, Colorado and through a third-party contract manufacturer in Mexico, to Celestica in Thailand and Benchmark Electronics in Alabama and Thailand. Although we are in the early stages of this transition, we have experienced delays in the manufacturing and delivery of products to fulfill orders, which adversely impacted our revenues on these products in the fourth quarter of 2007. We may continue to experience such delays and a resulting adverse impact on revenues in future quarters as we ramp production with these third-party contract manufacturers. With respect to the products acquired as a result of the SpectraLink acquisition and its Danish subsidiary KIRK telecom, the majority of the KIRK products are manufactured in Horsens, Denmark. Any event that may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue the facilities’ capacity to manufacture, assemble and repair our KIRK products could greatly impair our ability to generate revenue, fulfill orders and attain financial goals for these products. We face risks relating to changes in rules and regulations of the FCC and other regulatory agencies. The wireless communications industry, in which we are now involved due to the SpectraLink acquisition, is regulated by the FCC in the United States and similar government agencies in other countries and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum, or changing free un-licensed to fee based spectrum licensing, could significantly impact our SpectraLink operations in the United States and internationally. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those rights we have, our business would be materially impaired. We rely on third-party license agreements and termination or impairment of these agreements may cause delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments which would harm our business. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software incorporated into our products. For example, we license video communications source code from ADTRAN, Delcom, Mitsubishi, Simtrol, Skelmir, SNMP, and Software House, video algorithm protocols from DSP, ATT/LUCENT and Flextronics, Windows software from Microsoft, development source code from Avaya, Cisco Systems, In Focus Systems Inc., Nokia, Nortel Networks, Vocal Technologies Ltd., Wind River, Ingenient and Avistar, audio algorithms from D2, Nortel Networks, Sipro, Telogy and Voiceage, and communication software from Konexx and RADVISION. In addition, certain of our products are developed and manufactured based largely or solely on third-party technology. These third-party software licenses and arrangements may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays or reductions in new product introductions or current product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, licensed and integrated, if at all possible, which would harm our business and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to obtain necessary technology licenses on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, we could be prohibited from marketing our products, could be forced to market products without certain features, or could incur substantial costs to redesign our products, defend legal actions, or pay damages. We rely on our 802.11 technology partners to continue to provide the wireless local area network for our NetLink product, and to provide access points which support SpectraLink’s Voice Priority (SVP) technology. In the absence of a wireless voice prioritization standard to ensure quality of service, we rely on 802.11 technology partners, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Aruba Wireless Networks, Cisco Systems, Nortel, Symbol Technologies, 3 Com, and Trapeze Networks Inc. to continue to provide wireless local area network support for our NetLink product, and to provide access points that support SpectraLink’s SVP capability. If any of our technology partners fail to provide voice prioritization support for our products, the market opportunity for NetLink products would be reduced and our future results of operations would be harmed until we find new 802.11 technology partners or voice prioritization standards are adopted. 31 Table of Contents We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Others may independently develop similar proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our intellectual property rights or disclose such technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the U.S. or foreign countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents. In addition, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, and we could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. We face intellectual property infringement claims and other litigation claims that might be costly to resolve and, if resolved adversely, may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits (patent-related and otherwise) in the normal course of our business. The results of, and costs associated with, complex litigation matters are difficult to predict, and the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Negative developments with respect to pending lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline, and an unfavorable resolution of any particular lawsuit could have an adverse and possibly material effect on our business and results of operations. We expect that the number and significance of claims and legal proceedings that assert patent infringement claims or other intellectual property rights covering our products will increase as our business expands. In particular, we expect to face an increasing number of patent and copyright claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of video, voice, data and web conferencing products overlap. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. An unfavorable outcome in any such claim or proceeding could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations for the period in which the unfavorable outcome occurs, and potentially in future periods. Further, any settlement announced by us may expose us to further claims against us by third parties seeking monetary or other damages which, even if unsuccessful, would divert management attention from the business and cause us to incur costs, possibly material, to defend such matters. Loss of government contracts or failure to obtain required government certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. We sell our products indirectly and provide services to governmental entities in accordance with certain regulated contractual arrangements. While reporting and compliance with government contracts is the role of our indirect partner, the partner’s lack of reporting or compliance could have an impact on the sales of our products to government agencies. Further, the United States Federal government has certain certification and product requirements for products sold to them. If we are unable to meet applicable certification or other requirements within the timeframes specified by the United States Federal government, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely impacted. 32 Table of Contents While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we were able to assert in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our control framework may suffer if we are unable to effectively incorporate SpectraLink’s existing controls that have not yet been integrated into our control structure or to adapt our control framework appropriately as we continue to grow our business. If we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, through 2005, we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings in connection with stock option grants and other stock awards to our employees. However, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which now requires us to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings for employee stock awards. Such charges reduced net income by $16.3 million in 2006 and by $29.9 million in 2007 and will continue to negatively impact our future earnings. In addition, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based compensation expense and make such amounts difficult to predict accurately. Changes in our tax rates could adversely affect our future results. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. For instance, we previously announced an increase in our expected tax rate in 2006 due to the lapse in the U.S. research and development tax credit, which was subsequently reinstated and resulted in a tax rate adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) also adds more unpredictability and variability to our future effective tax rates. In addition, the adoption of FIN 48 in January 2007 may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. For example, our 2006 effective tax rate increased from 28% to 30% as a result of some of these factors and could further increase in the future. In addition, the Company is subject to the periodic examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s net income and financial condition, possibly materially. 33 Table of Contents Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war, ongoing Iraqi disturbances, an attack on Israel, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure due to power loss, telecommunications failure, human error, physical or electronic security breaches and computer viruses (which could leave us vulnerable to loss of our intellectual property and disruption of our business activities), and other events beyond our control. We do not have a fully implemented detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables and managing our inventories. Over the past few years, we initiated significant investments in Europe and Asia to expand our business in these regions. In Europe and Asia, as with other international regions, credit terms are typically longer than in the United States. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow as a percentage of our revenues, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years. Although, from time to time, we have been able to largely offset the effects of these influences through additional incentives offered to channel partners at the end of each quarter in the form of prepaid discounts, these additional incentives have lowered our profitability. In addition, economic uncertainty or a downturn in technology spending in the United States and other countries may restrict the availability of capital which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy. For example, one of our large European distributors filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2007. Either of these conditions would harm our cash flow and days sales outstanding performance. Although in recent quarters our experience in collecting receivables has been good and we expect this trend to continue, there can be no assurance that it will continue. In addition, as we manage our business and focus on shorter shipment lead times for certain of our products and implement freight cost reduction programs, our inventory levels may increase, resulting in decreased inventory turns that could negatively impact our cash flow. We believe inventory turns will continue to fluctuate depending upon our ability to reduce lead times, as well as due to changes in product mix and a greater mix of ocean freight versus air freight to reduce freight costs. Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has from time to time experienced significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: • statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business, including competitors, partners, suppliers or telecommunications industry leaders or relating to us specifically; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • acquisition of one of our competitors by a significantly larger company; • general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; and • domestic and international macroeconomic factors. In addition, the stock market continues to experience price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies like us and are often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 