Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors Influencing Future Results and Accuracy of Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about us, our beliefs, and assumptions made by us. In addition, we may make other written or oral statements, which constitute forward-looking statements, from time to time. Words such as “may,” “expects,” 11 Table of Contents “projects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals also are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. All forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the marketplace’s continued receptivity to our terms and elements of services offered under our standardized contract for future bundled service offerings; our ability to continue the growth of our service revenues through additional customer contact management centers; our ability to further penetrate into vertically integrated markets; our ability to expand revenues within the global markets; our ability to continue to establish a competitive advantage through sophisticated technological capabilities, and the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the demand for some of our client’s products and services and, in turn, could cause a decline in the demand for our services. Also, our clients may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, we may not be able to renew our revolving credit facility at terms that are as favorable as those terms available under our current credit facility. Also, the group of lenders under our credit facility may not be able to fulfill their funding obligations, which could adversely impact our liquidity. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to access debt under comparable terms and conditions. Our business is dependent on key clients, and the loss of a key client could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a few key clients. Our top ten clients accounted for approximately 41% of our consolidated revenues in 2010. The loss of (or the failure to retain a significant amount of business with) any of our key clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts contain penalty provisions for failure to meet minimum service levels and are cancelable by the client at any time or on short-term notice. Also, clients may unilaterally reduce their use of our services under these contracts without penalty. Thus, our contracts with our clients do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenues. Improper disclosure or control of personal information could result in liability and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our employees, our clients and customers of our clients. While we take measures to protect the security and privacy of this information and to prevent unauthorized access, it is possible that our security controls over personal data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our business is subject to substantial competition. The markets for many of our services operate on a commoditized basis and are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. While many companies provide outsourced customer contact management services, we believe no one company is dominant in the industry. There are numerous and varied providers of our services, including firms specializing in call center operations, temporary staffing and personnel placement, consulting and integration firms, and niche providers of outsourced customer contact management services, many of whom compete in only certain markets. Our competitors include both companies who possess greater resources and name recognition than we do, as well as small niche providers that have few assets and regionalized (local) name recognition instead of global name recognition. In addition to our competitors, many companies who might utilize our services or the services of one of our competitors may utilize in-house personnel to perform such services. Increased competition, our failure to compete successfully, pricing pressures, loss of market share and loss of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our large clients purchase outsourced customer contact management services from multiple preferred vendors. We have experienced and continue to anticipate significant pricing pressure from these clients in order to remain a preferred vendor. These companies also require vendors to be able to provide services in multiple locations. Although we believe we can effectively meet our clients’ demands, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with other outsourced customer contact management services companies on price. We believe that the most significant competitive factors in the sale of our core services include the standard requirements of service quality, tailored value-added service offerings, industry experience, advanced technological capabilities, global coverage, reliability, scalability, security, price and financial strength. Our business is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing. Our business and growth depend in large part on the industry trend toward outsourced customer contact management services. Outsourcing means that an entity contracts with a third party, such as us, to provide customer contact services rather than perform such services in-house. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves. A significant change in this trend could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our cross-selling efforts will cause clients to purchase additional services from us or adopt a single-source outsourcing approach. We are subject to various uncertainties relating to future litigation. We cannot predict whether any material suits, claims, or investigations may arise in the future. Regardless of the outcome of any future actions, claims, or investigations, we may incur substantial defense costs and such actions may cause a diversion of management time and attention. Also, it is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change which could affect our business and results of operations. Rapid technological advances, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and changes in client requirements characterize the market for outsourced customer contact management services. Technological advancements in voice recognition software, as well as self-provisioning and self-help software, along with call avoidance technologies, have the potential to adversely impact call volume growth and, therefore, revenues. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to service new products, platforms and rapidly changing technology. These factors will require us to provide adequately trained personnel to address the increasingly sophisticated, complex and evolving needs of our clients. In addition, our ability to capitalize on our acquisitions will depend on our ability to continually enhance software and services and adapt such software to new hardware and operating system requirements. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond rapidly to technological advances, new products and enhancements, or changes in client requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies heavily on technology and computer systems, which subjects us to various uncertainties. We have invested significantly in sophisticated and specialized communications and computer technology and have focused on the application of this technology to meet our clients’ needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to 13 Table of Contents continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Significant capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services. Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Emergency interruption of customer contact management center operations could affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our customer contact management centers and our information databases against damage that may be caused by fire, earthquakes, severe weather and other disasters, power failure, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and other emergencies. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding precautions taken to protect us and our clients from events that could interrupt delivery of services, there can be no assurance that a fire, natural disaster, human error, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide services to our clients. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize our facility capacity utilization. Our profitability is significantly influenced by our ability to effectively manage our contact center capacity utilization. The majority of our business involves technical support and customer care services initiated by our clients’ customers, and as a result, our capacity utilization varies and demands on our capacity are, to some degree, beyond our control. In order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects, we may need to open new contact centers. The opening or expansion of a contact center may result, at least in the short term, in idle capacity until we fully implement the new or expanded program. Additionally, the occasional need to open customer contact centers fully, or primarily, dedicated to a single client, instead of spreading the work among existing facilities with idle capacity, negatively affects capacity utilization. We periodically assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our contact centers. As a result, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate, close or partially close under-performing contact centers to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our contact center capacity. As part of our effort to consolidate our facilities, we may seek to sell or sublease a portion of our surplus contact center space, if any, and recover certain costs associated with it. Failure to sell or sublease such surplus space will negatively impact results of operations. Increases in the cost of telephone and data services or significant interruptions in such services could adversely affect our business. Our business is significantly dependent on telephone and data service provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Accordingly, any disruption of these services could adversely affect our business. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to service disruptions by investing in redundant circuits, although there is no assurance that the redundant circuits would not also suffer disruption. Any inability to obtain telephone or data services at favorable rates could negatively affect our business results. Where possible, we have entered into long-term contracts with various providers to mitigate short term rate increases and fluctuations. There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us, or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. A significant increase in the cost of telephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services could adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain and find new locations for customer contact centers in countries with stable wage rates. Our business is labor-intensive and therefore wages, employee benefits and employment taxes constitute the largest component of our operating expenses. As a result, expansion of our business is dependent upon our ability to find cost-effective locations in which to operate, both domestically and internationally. Some of our customer contact centers are located in countries that have experienced inflation and rising standards of living, which requires us to increase employee wages. In addition, collective bargaining is being utilized in an increasing number of countries in which we currently, or may in the future, desire to operate. Collective bargaining may result in material wage and benefit increases. If wage rates and benefits increase significantly in a country where we deliver offshore services, we may not be able to pass those increased labor costs on to our clients, requiring us to search for other cost effective delivery locations. There is no assurance that we will be able to find such cost-effective locations, and even if we do, the costs of closing delivery locations and opening new customer contact centers can adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our international operations and expansion involve various risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in markets outside the United States. At December 31, 2010, our international operations in EMEA, India and the Asia Pacific Rim were conducted from 39 customer contact management centers located in Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Germany, Egypt, South Africa, Scotland, Ireland, Denmark, Norway, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, India, The Peoples Republic of China, Australia and the Philippines. Revenues from these international operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, were 44%, 55%, and 60% of consolidated revenues, respectively. We also conduct business from 17 customer contact management centers located in Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Mexico and Brazil. International operations are subject to certain risks common to international activities, such as changes in foreign governmental regulations, tariffs and taxes, import/export license requirements, the imposition of trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, political uncertainties, longer payment cycles, possible greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, economic instability as well as political and country-specific risks. Additionally, we have been granted tax holidays in the Philippines, Costa Rica, El Salvador and India which expire at varying dates from 2011 through 2018. In some cases, the tax holidays expire without possibility of renewal. In other cases, we expect to renew these tax holidays, but there are no assurances from the respective foreign governments that they will renew them. This could potentially result in adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors could have an adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash balances of approximately $173.9 million (excluding restricted cash of $0.5 million) held in international operations, some of which would be subject to additional taxes if repatriated to the United States. The U.S. Department of the Treasury released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2012 Revenue Proposals” in February 2011. These proposals represent a significant shift in international tax policy, which may materially impact U.S. taxation of international earnings. We continue to monitor these proposals and are currently evaluating their potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Determination of any unrecognized deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in nature is not practicable. We conduct business in various foreign currencies and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to certain exposures arising from the translation and consolidation of the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries. We have, from time to time, taken limited actions, such as using foreign currency forward contracts, to attempt to mitigate our currency exchange exposure. However, there can be no assurance that we will take any actions to mitigate such exposure in the future, and if taken, that such actions will be successful or that future changes in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. A significant change in the value of the U.S. Dollar against the currency of one or more countries where we operate may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The fundamental shift in our industry toward global service delivery markets presents various risks to our business. Clients continue to require blended delivery models using a combination of onshore and offshore support. Our offshore delivery locations include The Peoples Republic of China, Australia, the Philippines, India, Mexico, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Brazil, and while we have operated in global delivery markets since 1996, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully conduct and expand such operations, and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The success of our offshore operations will be subject to numerous contingencies, some of which are beyond our control, including general and regional economic conditions, prices for our services, competition, changes in regulation and other risks. In addition, as with all of our operations outside of the United States, we are subject to various additional political, economic and market uncertainties (see “Our international operations and expansion involve various risks”). Additionally, a change in the political environment in the United States or the adoption and enforcement of legislation and regulations curbing the use of offshore customer contact management solutions and services could effectively have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements. We provide services to our clients’ customers in 24 countries around the world. Accordingly, we are subject to numerous legal regimes on matters such as taxation, government sanctions, content requirements, licensing, tariffs, government affairs, data privacy and immigration as well as internal and disclosure control obligations. In the U.S., as well as several of the other countries in which we operate, some of our services must comply with various laws and regulations regarding the method and timing of placing outbound telephone calls. Violations of these various laws and regulations could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution and unfavorable publicity. Changes in U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations, specifically those relating to the outsourcing of jobs to foreign countries, may adversely affect our ability to perform our services at our overseas facilities or could result in additional taxes on such services, thereby threatening our ability to continue to serve certain markets at offshore locations. Risks Related to Our Employees Our operations are substantially dependent on our senior management. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts, direction and guidance of our senior management. Our growth and success also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees and managers and on the ability of our executive officers and key employees to manage our operations successfully. We have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with our executive officers. The loss of any of our senior management or key personnel, or the inability to attract, retain or replace key management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to attract and retain experienced personnel may adversely impact our business. Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified technical and consultative professional personnel. We generally experience high turnover of our personnel and are continuously required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. Additionally, demand for qualified technical professionals conversant in multiple languages, including English, and/or certain technologies may exceed supply, as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training, or retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health epidemics could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our customer contact centers typically seat hundreds of employees in one location. Accordingly, an outbreak of a contagious infection in one or more of the markets in which we do business may result in significant worker absenteeism, lower asset utilization rates, voluntary or mandatory closure of our offices and delivery centers, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our business. Any prolonged or widespread health epidemic 16 Table of Contents could severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy Our strategy of growing through selective acquisitions and mergers involves potential risks. We evaluate opportunities to expand the scope of our services through acquisitions and mergers. We may be unable to identify companies that complement our strategies, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategies, we may be unable to acquire or merge with the company. In addition, a decrease in the price of our common stock could hinder our growth strategy by limiting growth through acquisitions funded with SYKES’ stock. Our acquisition strategy involves other potential risks. These risks include: § The inability to obtain the capital required to finance potential acquisitions on satisfactory terms; § The diversion of our attention to the integration of the businesses to be acquired; § The risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; § The need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; § The risk that key employees of the acquired business will leave after the acquisition; § Potential liabilities of the acquired business; § Unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations; § Adverse short-term effects on our operating results; § Lack of success in assimilating or integrating the operations of acquired businesses within our business; § The dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; § The impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions; § The businesses we acquire not proving profitable; and § Potentially incurring additional indebtedness. We may not succeed in our continued efforts to fully integrate the operations of ICT into our own, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. It is possible that the integration of the operations of ICT into our own could result in the disruption of ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors and lessors, or to achieve the full level of anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Specifically, issues addressed in completing the integration of the operations of ICT into our own operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other things: § integrating our information technology systems with those of ICT; § conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; § consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; § retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; § identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; § coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; § managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and § making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Integration efforts between the two companies at times may divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the full amount of anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. If we are not able to adequately address these 17 Table of Contents challenges, we may be unable to fully integrate ICT’s operations into our own, or to realize the full amount of anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. We may incur significant cash and non-cash costs in connection with the continued rationalization of assets resulting from the ICT acquisition. We may incur a number of non-recurring cash and non-cash costs associated with the continued rationalization of assets resulting from the ICT acquisition relating to the closing of facilities and disposition of assets. The ICT acquisition resulted in substantial goodwill. If the goodwill becomes impaired, then our profits would be significantly reduced or eliminated and shareholders’ equity would be reduced. We recorded $97.8 million in goodwill as a result of the ICT acquisition. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. This would result in a charge to the combined company’s operating earnings. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our organizational documents contain provisions that could impede a change in control. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. The staggered Board of Directors and the anti-takeover effects of certain provisions contained in the Florida Business Corporation Act and in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of those shares without shareholder approval, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited change in control. This may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the ability of shareholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. The volatility of our stock price may result in loss of investment. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations over short and long periods of time. We believe that market prices of outsourced customer contact management services stocks in general have experienced volatility, which could affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our financial results or performance. We further believe that various factors such as general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, changing market conditions in the outsourced customer contact management services industry, quarterly variations in our financial results, the announcement of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or new product offerings, and changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially in the future. Failure to adhere to laws, rules and regulations applicable to public companies operating in the U.S. may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Because we are a publicly traded company, we are subject to certain evolving and expensive federal, state and other rules and regulations relating to, among other things, assessment and maintenance of internal controls and corporate governance. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together with rules and regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) require us to furnish, on an annual basis, a report by our management (included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. We must include a disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management during the annual assessment. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future discover, areas of internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If at any time we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and/or completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will subject us to significant additional executive compensation and corporate governance requirements and disclosures, some of which have yet to be implemented by the SEC. Compliance with their requirements may be costly and adversely affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also anticipates the enactment of regulations that may affect the ability of financial institutions to offer credit and hedging instruments without significant additional capital or other costs to them. This may make it more difficult for us to have access to foreign exchange hedging transactions on favorable terms, which may limit the predictability of cash flows from operations and result in increased operating expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the year ended December 31, 2010 relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 19 Table of Contents 