Item 1A. Risk Factors We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business is subject to general economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. a) Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in Southern California and Inland Empire could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008. Further deterioration in economic conditions and real estate markets, in particular within our primary market area in Southern California, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing capacity and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. b) Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in Southern California and the Inland Empire in particular. Our construction and land loan portfolios, our commercial and multi-family loan portfolios and a certain number of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area will hurt our business. As of June 30, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Southern California. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 40 c) We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate construction and land loans, commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and single-family loans primarily within our market areas. Generally, these types of loans, other than the single-family loans, have a higher risk of loss. We had approximately $573.9 million outstanding in these types of higher risk loans at June 30, 2008, an increase of $41.2 million, or 8%, from $532.7 million at June 30, 2007. These loans have greater credit risk than single-family loans for a number of reasons, including those described below: Construction and Land loans. This type of lending contains the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property’s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project where the value is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction also poses additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor themselves to repay principal and interest. At June 30, 2008, we had $36.6 million or 2.6% of total loans in construction (gross of undisbursed loan funds) and land loans. Commercial Real Estate and Multi-Family loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and multi-family loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. At June 30, 2008, we had $535.9 million or 38.5% of loans held for investment in commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans. Commercial Business loans. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. At June 30, 2008, we had $8.6 million or 0.6% of total in commercial business loans. 41 We are also subject to credit risks in connection with our single-family lending practices. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our loans held for investment, loans available for sale, receivable from sale of loans, investment securities and in connection with mortgage banking activities, particularly in the sale of loans (counter-party risk). A substantial majority of our single-family mortgage loans held for investment are adjustable rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans bear higher credit risk as compared to single-family mortgage loans. These loans are typically secured by properties that are generally greater in amount, more difficult to evaluate and monitor and are susceptible to default as a result of changes in general economic conditions and, therefore, involve a greater degree of risk than single-family mortgage loans. Since payments on loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate are often dependent on the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be impacted by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. As with single-family mortgage loans, a substantial majority of our multi-family and commercial real estate loans are adjustable rate, and thus are subject to higher payments by the borrower when prevailing market interest rates rise. Our single-family, multi-family and commercial real estate loans are primarily located in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego Counties. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with substantially increased oil prices, other commodity prices and other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued in 2008. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land loans, single-family loans, multi-family loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial and multi-family and other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year June 30, 2008 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $12.1 million compared to $5.1 million for the fiscal year June 30, 2007, which reduced our results of operations for fiscal 2008. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $8.1 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 compared to $540,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect financial difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the Southern California economy. In addition, slowing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in non-performing loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At June 30, 2008 our total non-performing loans had increased to $23.2 million compared to $15.9 million at June 30, 2007. In that regard, our portfolio is concentrated in multi-family and commercial real estate loans and to a lesser degree in construction, commercial business and land loans, all of which are generally perceived to have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. While construction (gross of undisbursed loan funds) and land loans represented 2.6% of our total loans held for investment at June 30, 2008 they represented 22.8% of our non-performing loans at that date. 42 Our non-traditional single-family loans include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated-income loans, low FICO score loans, and may bear higher credit risk. As of June 30, 2008, these loans totaled $707.6 million, comprising 88% of total single-family mortgage loans held for investment and 52% of total loans held for investment. In the case of interest-only loans a borrower's monthly payment is subject to change in the future when the loan converts to a fully-amortizing status. Since the borrower’s monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to afford the increased monthly payment. In the case of stated income loans a borrower may misrepresent his income or source of income (which we have not verified) in order to obtain the loan. The borrower may not have sufficient income to qualify for the loan amount and may not be able to make the monthly loan payment. In the case of more than 30-year amortization loans the term of the loan requires many more monthly payments from the borrower (ultimately increasing the cost of the home) and subjects the loan to more interest rate cycles, economic cycles and employment cycles which increases the possibility that the borrower is negatively impacted by one of these cycles and is no longer willing or able to meet his monthly payment obligations. We have recently seen a rise in delinquencies in our non-traditional loans held for investment. As of June 30, 2008, 2.24% of such loans, totaling $15.9 million, were in non-accrual status, compared to 1.64% of such loans, totaling $12.0 million, in non-accrual status as of June 30, 2007. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a recession occurs we expect that it would negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our credit losses or our provision for loan losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or with terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB – San Francisco and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB – San Francisco or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on interest-bearing deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any 43 period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We manage our assets and liabilities in order to achieve long-term profitability while limiting our exposure to the fluctuation of interest rates. We anticipate periodic imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationship of various interest rates to each other. At any reporting period, we may have earning assets which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. The fluctuation of market interest rates can materially affect our net interest spread, interest margin, loan originations, deposit volumes and overall profitability. Additionally, there is a risk attributable to calculation methods (modeling risks) and assumptions used in the model to calculate our interest rate risk exposure, including loan prepayment and forward interest rate assumptions. Our mortgage banking business is subject to additional interest rate risk. For instance, rising interest rates may lower the loan origination volume thereby reducing the gain on sale of loans. Additionally, since the loan origination volume is hedged against interest rate fluctuations with forward loan sale commitments and put option contracts or other derivative financial instruments, rising or falling interest rates may alter the actual loan origination volume such that the hedges are insufficient to protect our profitability margins. Also, we cannot be assured that the value of the instruments we use to hedge our loan origination volume will react to the interest rate fluctuations in the same manner as the value of the loan origination commitments. The inconsistencies may also significantly impact profitability. For further information on our interest rate risks, see the discussion included in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” on page 65 of this Form 10-K. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. While our capital and liquidity positions are currently strong and we believe we have sufficient capacity to hold additional mortgage loans until investor demand improves and yield requirements moderate, our capacity to retain mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of California. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of California and the specific local markets in which we operate. Adverse economic conditions unique to the California markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact our state and local markets and, in turn, also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Of particular concern are the falling real estate values, which may lead to higher loan losses since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within California. Falling real estate values may inhibit our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service 44 providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Some of our competitors are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among others. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. For further information, see “Item 1. Business - REGULATION” on page 31 of this Form 10-K. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot be certain that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. 45 Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions, or their effect on a particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities and/or any consequent actions on the part of the United States government and others will have on the United States and world financial markets, local, regional and national economies, and real estate markets across the United States. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, a decline in general economic conditions and real estate related investments and an increase in loan defaults. Such unexpected losses and events could materially affect our results of operations. We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Provident Financial Holdings, Inc is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Additionally, the Bank may experience periods of deteriorating earnings and cannot pay dividends to the Corporation. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Earthquakes and other natural disasters in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and borrowers' inability to repay loans. Since our geographic concentration is in Southern California, we are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. A major earthquake or other natural disaster may disrupt our business operations for an indefinite period of time and could result in material losses, although we have not experienced any losses in the past six years as a result of earthquake damage or other natural disaster. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to our own 46 property, a substantial number of our borrowers would likely incur property damage to the collateral securing their loans. Although we are in an earthquake prone area, we and other lenders in the market area may not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan. Additionally, if the collateralized properties are only damaged and not destroyed to the point of total insurable loss, borrowers may suffer sustained job interruption or job loss, which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or if terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 