Item 1A. Risk Factors We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend. Since the latter half of 2007, severely depressed economic conditions have prevailed in portions of the United States and from time to time natural disasters have caused substantial damage in states such as California, where we hold substantially all of our loans. As of June 30, 2009, approximately 85% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers in Southern California. A worsening of economic conditions in California, particularly Southern California, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors could impact our markets and, in turn, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: 45 • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • sales of foreclosed assets may slow down; • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing capacity and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans; and • demand for our products and services may decline. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. Most of our loans are secured by residential real property. Our real estate secured lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions as they significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and analysis of the borrower's financial position and ability to meet current payment obligations when these types of loans are originated requires detailed evaluation and review at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. The decline in residential real estate values due to the downturn in the California housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. Continued declines in real estate sales and prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. The various types of loans we hold in our loan portfolio are susceptible to specific risks as described below: Our emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk. Our non-traditional single-family loans include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated-income loans, low FICO score loans, and may bear higher credit risk. As of June 30, 2009, these loans totaled $573.9 million, comprising 85% of total single-family mortgage loans held for investment and 49% of total loans held for investment. In the case of interest-only loans a borrower's monthly payment is subject to change in the future when the loan converts to a fully-amortizing status. Since the borrower’s monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to afford the increased monthly payment. In the case of stated income loans a borrower may misrepresent his income or source of income (which we have not verified) in order to obtain the loan. The borrower may not have sufficient income to qualify for the loan amount and may not be able to make the monthly loan payment. In the case of more than 30-year amortization loans the term of the loan requires many more monthly payments from the borrower (ultimately increasing the cost of the home) and subjects the loan to more interest rate cycles, economic cycles and employment cycles which increases the possibility that the borrower is negatively impacted by one of these cycles and is no longer willing or able to meet his monthly payment obligations. We have recently seen a rise in delinquencies in our non-traditional loans held for investment. As of June 30, 2009, 9.24% of such loans, totaling $53.0 million, were in non-performing status, compared to 2.24% of such loans, totaling $15.9 million, in non-performing status as of June 30, 2008. Our commercial and multi-family real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and multi-family loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. At June 30, 2009, we had $495.3 million or 41.0% of total loans held for investment in commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans. 46 We are also subject to credit risks in connection with our single-family lending practices. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our loans held for investment, loans held for sale at fair value, loans held for sale at lower of cost or market, investment securities and in connection with mortgage banking activities, particularly in the sale of loans (counter-party risk). A substantial majority of our single-family mortgage loans held for investment are adjustable rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the California housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years -- with falling home prices, increases in foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment -- have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions, and even community based financial institutions such as our Bank. Concerned about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including funding to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to significantly improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, particularly with respect to how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their debts. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates that may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during the past fiscal year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $48.7 million compared to $13.1 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, which severely impacted our results of operations for fiscal 2009. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $23.1 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to $8.1 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. The deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of loan delinquencies and non-performing assets. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures of our residential one- to four-family mortgage loans, which represent 84.2% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2009. At June 30, 2009, our total non- 47 performing assets, primarily single-family loans, had increased to $88.3 million compared to $32.5 million at June 30, 2008. Further, our single family residential loan portfolio, which comprises approximately 57.5% of our total loan portfolio is concentrated in non-traditional single-family loans which include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated-income loans, low FICO score loans that have a higher risk of default and loss than conforming residential mortgage loans. As of June 30, 2009, these loans totaled $573.9 million, comprising 85% of total single-family mortgage loans held for investment and 49% of total loans held for investment. See “Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss - Our emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk” above. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if the recession lasts for a long period, we expect that it would negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may have continuing losses. Although we reported net income of $10.5 million and $860,000, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2008, we recorded a net loss of $7.4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. This lack of net income has primarily resulted from our high level of non-performing assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. We may continue to suffer further losses. See "Business– Delinquencies and Classified Assets.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, or if we are required to increase our provision for loan losses, our earnings could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Material additions to the allowance or increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses was 3.75% of gross loans held for investment and 63.3% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2009. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the bank regulators, may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may elect to increase our provision for loan losses in light of our assessment of economic conditions and other factors from time to time. We may elect to make further increases in our quarterly provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, which also could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as REO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the assets NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not 48 be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or with terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB – San Francisco and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB – San Francisco or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs and our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings may not be available to us in the future or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available to us on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on interest-bearing deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We manage our assets and liabilities in order to achieve long-term profitability while limiting our exposure to the fluctuation of interest rates. We anticipate periodic imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationship of various interest rates to each other. At any reporting period, we may have earning assets which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. The fluctuation of market interest rates can materially affect our net interest spread, interest margin, loan originations, deposit volumes and overall profitability. Additionally, there is a risk attributable to calculation methods (modeling risks) and assumptions used in the model to calculate our interest rate risk exposure, including loan prepayment and forward interest rate assumptions. 49 Our mortgage banking business is subject to additional interest rate risk. For instance, rising interest rates may lower the loan origination volume thereby reducing the gain on sale of loans. Additionally, since the loan origination volume is hedged against interest rate fluctuations with loan sale commitments and put option contracts or other derivative financial instruments, rising or falling interest rates may alter the actual loan origination volume such that the hedges are insufficient to protect our profitability margins. Also, we cannot be assured that the value of the instruments we use to hedge our loan origination volume will react to the interest rate fluctuations in the same manner as the value of the loan origination commitments. These inconsistencies may also significantly impact profitability. For further information on our interest rate risks, see the discussion included in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” on page 73 of this Form 10-K. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. While our capital and liquidity positions are currently strong and we believe we have sufficient capacity to hold additional mortgage loans until investor demand improves and yield requirements moderate, our capacity to retain mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Some of our competitors are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among others. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or 50 policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. For further information, see “Item 1. Business - REGULATION” on page 36 of this Form 10-K. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot be certain that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Provident Financial Holdings, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Additionally, the Bank may experience periods of deteriorating earnings and cannot pay, or may otherwise be restricted by its banking regulators from paying dividends to the Corporation. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. 51 Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Earthquakes and other natural disasters in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and borrowers' inability to repay loans. Since our geographic concentration is in Southern California, we are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. A major earthquake or other natural disaster may disrupt our business operations for an indefinite period of time and could result in material losses, although we have not experienced any losses in the past six years as a result of earthquake damage or other natural disaster. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to our own property, a substantial number of our borrowers would likely incur property damage to the collateral securing their loans. Although we are in an earthquake prone area, we and other lenders in the market area may not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan. Additionally, if the collateralized properties are only damaged and not destroyed to the point of total insurable loss, borrowers may suffer sustained job interruption or job loss, which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed, or if available, on terms that will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not be successful in stabilizing the U.S. financial system or improving the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: · Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; · Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; · Temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2013; and · Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. 52 Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program (“CPP”), pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the CPP restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make it significantly more attractive to acquire financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. The FDIC established its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) in October, 2008. Under the interim rule for the TLGP, there are two parts to the program: the Debt Guarantee Program (DGP) and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (TAGP). Eligible entities are participants unless they opted out on or before December 5, 2008 and pay various fees. Under the DGP, the FDIC guarantees new senior unsecured debt certain convertible debt of an eligible holding companies and insured institutions issued no later than October 31, 2009. The guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012 (for debt issued before April 1, 2009) or December 31, 2012 (for debt issued on or after April 1, 2009) . The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity’s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009, or for certain institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Under the TAGP, the FDIC provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage for non interest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts), NOW accounts bearing interest at 0.5% or less, and certain funds swept into non interest-bearing savings accounts. NOW accounts and money market deposit accounts are not covered. The TAGP remains in effect for participants until December 31, 2009, and unless they opt out of the extension, through the extension period from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, into law. The ARRA is intended to revive the US economy by creating millions of new jobs and stemming home foreclosures. In addition, the ARRA significantly rewrites the original executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, which pertains to financial institutions that have received or will receive financial assistance under TARP or related programs. The actual impact that EESA, ARRA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market 53 conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Our federal thrift charter may be eliminated under the Administration's Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. The administration has proposed the creation of a new federal government agency, the National Bank Supervisor ("NBS") that would charter and supervise all federally chartered depository institutions, and all federal branches and agencies of foreign banks. It is proposed that the NBS take over the responsibilities of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which currently charters and supervises nationally chartered banks, and responsibility for the institutions currently supervised by the Office of Thrift Supervision, which supervises federally chartered thrift and thrift holding companies, such as Provident Financial Holdings and Provident Savings Bank. In addition, under the administration's proposal, the thrift charter, under which Provident Savings Bank is organized, would be eliminated. If the administration's proposal is finalized, Provident Savings Bank may be subject to a new charter mandated by the NBS. There is no assurance as to how this new charter, or the supervision by the NBS, will affect our operations going forward. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2009 was $1.9 million, including the FDIC special assessment of $734,000 recorded in June 2009 and payable on September 30, 2009. Deposit insurance assessments will increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC DIF resulting from the cost of recent bank failures and an increase in the number of institutions likely to fail over the next few years. The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums on all FDIC-insured institutions quarterly based on annualized rates for four risk categories. Each institution is assigned to one of four risk categories based on its capital, supervisory ratings and other factors. Well capitalized institutions that are financially sound with only a few minor weaknesses are assigned to Risk Category I. Risk Categories II, III and IV present progressively greater risks to the DIF. Effective April 1, 2009, the initial base assessment rates prior to adjustments range from 12 to 45 basis points depending on the applicable Risk Category. Initial base assessment rates are subject to adjustments based on an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits, such that the total base assessment rates after adjustments range from 7 to 24 basis points for Risk Category I, 17 to 43 basis points for Risk Category II, 27 to 58 basis points for Risk Category III, and 40 to 77.5 basis points for Risk Category IV. The FDIC also has authority to increase or decrease total base assessment rates in the future by as much as three basis points without a formal rulemaking proceeding. In addition to the regular quarterly assessments, due to losses and projected losses attributed to failed institutions, the FDIC has adopted a rule imposing a special assessment of five basis points on the amount of each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, reduced by the amount of its Tier 1 capital (not to exceed 10 basis points of its assessment base for regular quarterly premium) as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment rule also permits the FDIC to impose additional special assessments, each of the same amount or less, based on assets, capital and deposits as of September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, to be collected, respectively, on December 31, 2009 and March 30, 2010. The FDIC has announced that the first additional special assessment is probable and the second is less certain. 54 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 