========= ========= ========= ========= ========= Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below regarding the business and the ownership of our shares. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, and the price of our common stock could decline significantly. 6 Developments that have had a significant impact on our operations. One major event in 2001 and early 2002 significantly changed our business operations: the passage of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the "Security Act") by the United States Congress in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, pursuant to which the Federal Government through the United States Transportation Security Administration ("TSA") took over aviation security services in the U.S. in November 2002. As a result of this event, we have limited aviation security operations in the U.S. If we are unable to increase revenues from aviation security services, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely materially affected. In February 2002, we entered into an aviation security services contract with the TSA to continue to provide aviation security services in all of our current airport locations at that time until the earlier of either the completed transition of these security services on an airport by airport basis to the U.S. Federal Government or November 2002. In connection with payments made by the TSA to Huntleigh USA Corporation Inc. ("Huntleigh"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for aviation security services provided in 2002, the Defense Contract Management Agency has indicated that it believes that Huntleigh should not have been paid on a fixed price basis as believed by Huntleigh, but on an actual costs plus basis, what the TSA would consider a reasonable profit. On that later basis, Huntleigh may be required to repay to the TSA the difference between such amount and the actual amounts paid to it. Huntleigh, however, has various claims for additional amounts it considers are due to it for the services provided to the TSA. Potential liability claims As a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks, numerous lawsuits have been commenced against us and our U.S. subsidiary. The cases arise out of airport security services provided for United Flight 175 out of Logan Airport in Boston, Massachusetts which crashed into the World Trade Center. The outcome of these cases is uncertain. If there is an adverse outcome with respect to any of these claims which is not covered by insurance, then there may be a significant adverse impact on us. Most of those claims are in the process of being settled at no cost to the Company. Losses in recent years We incurred losses from continuing operations of $3.2 million, $2.9 million, $8.0 million, $9.8 million, and $11.3 million in 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The losses were accompanied by net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of $(4.6) million, $3.9 million, $(3.6) million, $(7.6) million and $(5.2) million in 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and at December 31, 2009 the Company had a working capital deficiency of $10.6 million and negative equity of $18.3 million. If we do not achieve new service contracts and profitability, the viability of our company will be in question and our share price will likely decline. 7 Auditors' going concern opinion In their report, our auditors have expressed an opinion that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2009 and for the year then ended, the Company had a net loss from continuing operations of $3.2 million, a net working capital deficiency of $10.6 million and shareholders' deficiency of $18.3 million. Loans from principal stockholder Our financing activities have consisted primarily of loans from our principal shareholder. We do not have any other continual commitments or identified sources of additional capital from third parties. There is no assurance that our principal shareholder will continue making loans to us and even if loans are made, there is no assurance that the terms will be favorable to the Company. IRS audit One of our U.S. subsidiaries, ICTS USA, Inc and its Subsidiaries, has undergone an examination by the IRS for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 & 2002. The IRS has proposed a number of adjustments that collectively result in an assessed tax liability and penalties of more than $7.3 million plus interest. Management is vigorously contesting the proposed adjustments, and has filed a "Protest" with the IRS. This matter will be heard by the Appellate Division of the IRS, at which time management will have an opportunity to present its position on the various issues raised at the examination level. Management has provided for possible tax liabilities resulting from this examination in its consolidated financial statements presented herein. Key personnel Our success will largely depend on the services of our senior management and executive personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a adverse impact on our operations. Our success will also be dependent upon our ability to hire and retain additional qualified executive personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain personnel with the attributes necessary to execute our strategy. We cannot assure you that one or more of our executives will not leave our employment and either work for a competitor or otherwise compete with us. Our contracts with airports or airlines may be canceled or not renewed. Our revenues are primarily provided from services pursuant to contracts, which are cancelable on short notice at any time, with or without cause. We cannot assure you that an existing client will decide not to terminate us or fail to renew a contract. In addition consolidation in the airline industry could also result in a loss of customers. Any such termination or failure to renew a contract with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There is a material contract that will expire in 2011 and the Company is in the process of negotiations to renew the contract. If the negotiations will not be in the Company's favor it will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results. 8 If our relationship with our major customers is impaired, then there may be a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our major customers include the major airlines servicing the United States. Currently our customers' financial results have suffered because of the economic slowdown which affected our situation as service provider. The airline industry continues to encounter financial difficulties and this may have a material adverse impact on our business. Development of new technology As part of our technology business strategy, we develop technological solutions and systems for the aviation security industry, develop security activities other than aviation security such as banking, and seek other revenue producing businesses and business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new systems or develop systems that are commercially viable. Our success in developing and marketing our systems will also depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technology changes in the industry and to integrate such changes into our systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to change or implement our business strategy. We may not have the expertise to be successful in developing our business in areas that are not related to the security industry. We compete in a highly competitive industry and our competitors may be more successful in developing new technology and achieving market acceptance of their products. Competition Competition in the aviation security industry as well as in the non-security related aviation services industry is intense. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We expect that our competitors will develop and market alternative systems and technologies that may have greater functionality or be more cost effective than the services we provide or the systems that we may develop. If our competitors develop such systems we may not be able to successfully market our systems. Even if we are able to develop systems with greater functionality which are more cost effective than those developed by our competitors, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of our systems. Governmental regulation The aviation security industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation, the impact of which is difficult to predict. The Security Act has had a significant negative impact on our aviation security business in the USA. In addition, our ability to successfully market new systems will be dependent upon government regulations over which we have no control. Any existing or new regulation may cause us to incur increased expenses or impose substantial liability upon us. The likelihood of such new legislation is difficult to predict. For example, during 2007, the TSA took over part of Huntleigh's business related to ticketing. Annual loss of revenue due to taking of the business was approximately $5 million. 9 Legislation designed to protect privacy rights. From time to time, personal identity databases and technologies utilizing such databases have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate the use of personal identity information technologies on the grounds that personal information and these technologies may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. In the event that such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for our products may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that the Company fails to detect terrorist activity as a result of legislation designed to protect privacy rights, the market for our products may be adversely affected. Licenses for operations A license to operate is required from the airport authority in the airports in which we currently operate. The loss of, or failure to obtain, a license to operate in one or more of such airports could result in the loss of, or the inability to compete for, contracts in the airports in which we have licenses. Litigation We are currently a defendant in several significant lawsuits, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Currency risk A substantial portion of our revenue is generated in foreign countries. We generally retain our income in local currency at the location the funds are received. Since our financial statements are presented in United States dollars, any significant fluctuation in the currency exchange rate between such currency and the United States dollar would affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limitations in price share The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell your shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by a large number of factors, including, among others, variations in our operating results, the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our shares, and differences between actual results of operations and the results anticipated by investors and securities analysts. Many of the factors which affect the market price of our common stock are outside of our control and may not even be directly related to us. Main shareholders activities As of December 31, 2009, there are three main shareholders in the Company, which own together approximately 81.3% of our shares (excluding conversion rights). Their interests could conflict with yours; significant sales of shares held by them could have a negative effect on our stock price. 10 Mr. Menachem Atzmon, a director and chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Company, as a representative of the Atzmon Family Trust, owns or controls approximately 61.4% of our issued and outstanding common stock (excluding conversion rights). As a result of such ownership, and/or control, the Atzmon Family Trust is able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Dividends We cannot assure you that any dividends will be declared or paid on our common stock. Laws in the Netherlands As a Netherlands "Naamloze Vennootschap" (N.V.) public limited liability company, we are subject to certain requirements not generally applicable to corporations organized under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States. Among other things, the authority to issue shares is vested in the general meeting of shareholders, except to the extent such authority to issue shares has been delegated by the shareholders or by the Articles of Association to another corporate body for a period not exceeding five years. The issuance of the common shares is generally subject to shareholder preemptive rights, except to the extent that such preemptive rights have been excluded or limited by the general meeting of shareholders (subject to a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes if less than 50% of the outstanding share capital is present or represented) or by the corporate body designated to do so by the general meeting of shareholders or the Articles of Association. Such a designation may only take place if such corporate body has also been designated to issue shares. In this regard, the general meeting of shareholders has authorized our Supervisory Board to issue any authorized and unissued shares at any time up to five years from December 17, 2008, the date of such authorization, and has authorized the Supervisory Board to exclude or limit shareholder preemptive rights with respect to any issuance of common shares prior to such date. Such authorizations may be renewed by the general meeting of shareholders from time to time, for up to five years at a time. This authorization would also permit the issuance of shares in an acquisition, provided that shareholder approval is required in connection with a statutory merger (except that, in certain limited circumstances, the board of directors of a surviving company may resolve to legally merge the company). Shareholders do not have preemptive rights with respect to shares which are issued against payment other than in cash. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Netherlands. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, or their members, or controlling shareholders, than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Pursuant to mandatory Dutch corporate law, adoption of our annual accounts by the general meeting of shareholders does not automatically discharge the Supervisory Board and Management Board and their members from liability in respect of the exercise of their duties for the particular financial year. In order to discharge the Supervisory Board and Management Board and their members from liability a separate resolution thereto needs to be adopted by the general meeting of shareholders (which resolution 11 can be adopted in the same meeting in which the annual accounts will be adopted). Such discharge of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board and their members by the shareholders is subject to the provisions of Dutch law, including provisions relating to liability of members of supervisory boards and management boards upon the bankruptcy of a company pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code and is furthermore not absolute and will not be effective as to matters misrepresented or not disclosed to the shareholders. An individual member of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board who can prove that he is not at fault for such an omission or misrepresentation would not be liable. U.S. judgments may not be enforceable in the Netherlands A significant number of our activities are located outside the United States. In addition, members of the Management and Supervisory Boards and certain experts named herein are residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against such persons judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. The party that wishes to enforce such judgment in the Netherlands will have to institute second proceedings before a competent court in the Netherlands in order to obtain a similar decision that is capable of enforcement. A court in the Netherlands will, under current practice, normally issue a judgment incorporating the judgment rendered by the United States court if it finds that (i) the United States court assumed jurisdiction on international recognized grounds, (ii) the judgment was obtained in compliance with principles of due process, (iii) the judgment is final and conclusive and (iv) recognition of the judgment does not contravene the public policy or public order of the Netherlands. We cannot assure you that United States investors will be able to enforce any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws against us or members of the Management or Supervisory Board [or certain experts named herein] who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States. In addition, a court in the Netherlands might not impose civil liability on us or on the members of the Management or Supervisory Boards in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands. 