ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that are highlighted here are not the only ones that the Company faces. If any of the risks actually occur, 20 Table of Contents the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline, and TLCVision’s securityholders may lose all or part of their investment. Bankruptcy Related Risk Factors The Company filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and the CCAA on December 21, 2009. During the Company’s bankruptcy proceedings, TLCVision’s operations and ability to execute a business plan are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with the Company’s bankruptcy proceedings include the Company’s ability to: • obtain court approval with respect to motions filed in the bankruptcy proceedings; • obtain confirmation of and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the bankruptcy proceedings; • obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors and service providers; • renew contracts that are critical to our operations; and • retain management and other key individuals. These risks and uncertainties could affect the Company’s business and operations in various ways. Negative events or publicity associated with the bankruptcy proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s sales and relationships with customers, physicians, vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. In addition, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Courts, which may limit the Company’s ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. As a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, the Company’s outstanding common shares are expected to have no value and would be canceled under the existing amended Plan of Reorganization and, therefore, the Company believes that the value of its various pre-petition liabilities and other securities is highly speculative. Accordingly, caution should be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these liabilities or securities. Our ability to independently manage our business is restricted during the bankruptcy proceedings, and steps or actions in connection therewith may require the approval of the U.S. Court, the Canadian Court and our creditors. Pursuant to the various U.S. Court orders, and ancillary proceedings in Canada, during the bankruptcy proceedings, some or all of the decisions with respect to our business may require consultation with, review by or ultimate approval of the U.S Court, the Canadian Court, our general unsecured creditors’ committee and our secured creditors. We can not assure that these third parties will support our positions on matters presented during the bankruptcy proceedings, including the Plan of Reorganization, as amended. Disagreements between us and these various third parties could protract the Chapter 11 cases, negatively impact our ability to operate and delay our emergence from the Chapter 11 proceedings. Inability to obtain confirmation of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization, as amended, in a timely manner may significantly disrupt operations. The impact a continuation of the bankruptcy proceedings may have on our operations and businesses cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. The continuation of the bankruptcy proceedings, particularly if the Plan of Reorganization, as amended, is not approved or confirmed in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operations and relationships with our customers, vendors, suppliers and employees. If confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization, as amended, does not occur expeditiously, the bankruptcy proceedings could result in, among other things, increases in costs, professional fees and similar expenses. In addition, prolonged bankruptcy proceedings may make it more difficult to retain and attract management and other key personnel, and would require senior management to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our financial reorganization instead of focusing on the operations of our business. While the bankruptcy cases are pending, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While the bankruptcy proceedings are pending, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract termination and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the filling of the Chapter 11 Petitions. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or 21 Table of Contents disposition and the Plan of Reorganization, as amended, could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of the Plan of Reorganization, as amended. Failure to obtain confirmation of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization, as amended, may result in liquidation or an alternative plan on less favorable terms. Although the Company believes that the proposed Plan of Reorganization, as amended, will satisfy requirements for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code and recognition under the CCAA, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Courts will reach the same conclusion. In addition, confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization, as amended, is subject to certain conditions. Failure to meet any of these conditions could result in the propose amended Plan of Reorganization not being confirmed. If the plan is not confirmed there can be no assurance that the Chapter 11 Petitions will continue rather than be converted into Chapter 7 liquidation cases or that any alternative plan or plans of reorganization would be on terms as favorable to the holders of claims. If a liquidation or protracted reorganization of the Company’s business or operations were to occur, there is a substantial risk that the Company’s going concern value would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders. The Company’s common shares are no longer listed on the NASDAQ or TSX. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s common shares were suspended from trading on both the NASDAQ and the TSX. The Company’s common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ and the TSX effective January 18, 2010 and January 21, 2010, respectively. The Company’s common shares currently trade on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol “TLCVQ”. As a result of the Company’s common shares no longer being listed on the NASDAQ or TSX, it will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common shares or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of our common shares. In connection with the delisting of the Company’s common shares, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence in our Company by suppliers, customers, physicians and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our common shares. Transfers or issuance of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carryforwards in the United States of approximately $100.8 million as of December 31, 2009. Our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings. A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the bankruptcy proceedings may give rise to cancellation of indebtedness or debt forgiveness (COD), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of a plan of reorganization, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial future. The Company may be unable to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements and related notes have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern although the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on restructuring its obligations in a manner that allows it to obtain confirmation of a plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Courts. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or to the amounts and classification of liabilities or any other adjustments that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 22 Table of Contents Other Risk Factors Economic conditions cause fluctuations in the Company’s revenues and profitability. During 2009 and 2008, the United States experienced sharp declines in key economic indicators, including the CCI. The CCI, as reported by the Conference Board, a non-profit business group that is highly regarded by investors and the Federal Reserve, fell from 87.3 at January 2008 to 38.6 at December 2008. The CCI fell to a record low of 25.3 at February 2009 and gradually improved to 53.6 at December 2009, well below an index that was at or above 100 for a significant portion of the decade. Laser vision correction is generally not reimbursed by health care insurance companies or other third-party payors and is therefore impacted by consumer discretionary spending patterns. As a result, overall U.S. industry-wide demand for laser vision correction declined by approximately 27% and 26% in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and may continue to decline into 2010. Accordingly, the Company’s future operating results may vary based upon the impact of changes in economic conditions and the resulting impact on discretionary spending habits of consumers interested in laser vision correction. If consumer discretionary spend does not rebound, further declines in procedure levels and revenue may result. Weakened economic conditions, including the distressed credit market, may also result in an increase in the number of our customers who experience financial distress and therefore do not qualify for patient financing or declare bankruptcy. A renewed decline in the economy could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company has reported accumulated deficits; its profitability is uncertain. For the year ended December 31, 2009, TLCVision reported an annual net loss attributable to TLC Vision Corporation of $36.7 million and an accumulated deficit balance of $410.4 million. Management is uncertain as to the profitability level of the Company going forward. The Company’s profitability will depend on a number of factors, including: • the outcome of the current bankruptcy proceedings; • macroeconomic conditions in the United States and Canada, including the availability of discretionary income; • general demand for eye-care services; • the Company’s public image in the marketplace; • market acceptance of TLCVision’s value-oriented pricing strategy; • the Company’s ability to control costs; • the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy; • the Company’s ability to obtain adequate insurance against malpractice claims and reduce the number of claims; • concerns about the safety and effectiveness of laser vision correction; • competitive factors; • regulatory developments; • the Company’s ability to retain and attract qualified personnel; and • doctors’ ability to obtain adequate insurance against malpractice claims at reasonable rates. The market for laser vision correction is intensely competitive and competition may increase. Some of the Company’s current or future competitors may have greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and/or other resources and experience than TLCVision. The availability of such resources may allow current and future competitors to operate and compete more effectively than the Company. TLCVision competes with hospitals, individual ophthalmologists, other corporate laser centers and manufacturers of excimer laser equipment in offering laser vision correction services and/or access to excimer lasers. The Company’s principal corporate competitors include LCA-Vision, Inc. and Lasik Vision Institute, Inc. Competition in the market for laser vision correction could increase as excimer laser surgery becomes more commonplace. In addition, competition would increase if state or provincial laws were amended to permit optometrists, in addition to ophthalmologists, to perform laser vision correction. The Company will compete on the basis of quality of service, surgeon skill, reputation and price. If more providers offer laser vision correction in a given geographic market, the price charged for such procedures may decrease. Competitors have offered laser vision correction at prices considerably lower than TLCVision’s prices. The laser vision correction industry has been significantly affected by reductions in the price for laser vision correction. Market conditions may compel the Company to lower prices in its centers to remain competitive and any reduction in its prices may not be offset by an increase in the Company’s procedure volume or decreases in costs. A decrease in either the fees or procedures performed at TLCVision’s eye care centers or in the number of procedures performed at centers could cause revenues to decline, and business and financial condition to weaken. 23 Table of Contents Laser vision correction competes with other surgical and non-surgical means of correcting refractive disorders, including eyeglasses, contact lenses, other types of refractive surgery and other technologies currently available and under development, such as intraocular lenses and surgery with different types of lasers. The Company’s management, operations and marketing plans may not be successful in meeting this competition. Certain competitive optometry chains and other suppliers of eyeglasses and contact lenses may have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and other resources and experience than TLCVision and may promote alternatives to laser vision correction or purchase laser systems and offer laser vision correction to their customers. If the price of excimer laser systems decreases, additional competition could develop. The price for excimer laser systems could decrease for a number of reasons, including technological innovation and increased competition among laser manufacturers. Further reductions in the price of excimer lasers could reduce demand for the Company’s laser access services by making it economically more attractive for eye surgeons to buy excimer lasers rather than utilize our services. Most affiliated surgeons performing laser vision correction at the Company’s centers and significant employees have agreed to restrictions on competing with TLCVision, or soliciting patients or employees associated with their facilities; however, these non-competition agreements may not be enforceable. The market acceptance of laser vision correction is uncertain. The Company believes that the profitability and growth of TLCVision will depend upon broad acceptance of laser vision correction in the United States and, to a lesser extent, Canada. The Company may have difficulty generating revenue and growing its business if laser vision correction does not become more widely accepted by the general population as an alternative to existing methods of treating refractive vision disorders. Laser vision correction may not become more widely accepted due to a number of factors, including: • its cost, particularly since laser vision correction typically is not covered by government or private insurers; • general resistance to surgery; • the fact that effective and less expensive alternative methods of correcting refractive vision disorders are widely available; • the lack of long-term follow-up data; • the possibility of unknown side effects; and • reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from laser vision correction. Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results of laser vision correction may negatively impact market acceptance of laser vision correction and prevent the Company from growing its business. Concerns have been raised with respect to the predictability and stability of results and potential complications or side effects of laser vision correction. Any complications or side effects of laser vision correction may call into question the safety and effectiveness of laser vision correction, which in turn may damage the likelihood of market acceptance of laser vision correction. Complications or side effects of laser vision correction could lead to product liability, malpractice or other claims against the Company. Also, complications or side effects could jeopardize the approval by the FDA of the excimer laser for sale for laser vision correction. Although results of studies show that the majority of patients experienced no serious side effects numerous years after laser vision correction using PRK, complications may be identified in further long-term follow-up studies of PRK. There are no long-term studies on the side effects of LASIK, the procedure more often performed in recent years. However, studies of patients multiple years after LASIK reported the majority of patients had a high overall satisfaction with the procedure. There is no independent industry source for data on side effects or complications from laser vision correction. In addition, the Company does not track side effects. Some of the possible side effects of laser vision correction are: • foreign body sensation; • pain or discomfort; • sensitivity to bright lights; • blurred vision; • dryness or tearing; • fluctuation in vision; • night glare; • poor or reduced visual quality; • overcorrection or under-correction; 24 Table of Contents • regression; and • corneal flap or corneal healing complications. The Company believes that the percentage of patients who experience serious side effects as a result of laser vision correction at its centers is likely less than 1%. However, there is no study to support this belief. Laser vision correction may also involve the removal of “Bowman’s membrane,” an intermediate layer between the outer corneal layer and the middle corneal layer of the eye. Although several studies have demonstrated no significant adverse reactions to excimer laser removal of Bowman’s membrane, the long-term effect of the removal of Bowman’s membrane on patients is unclear. The Company may be unable to enter into or maintain agreements with doctors or other health care providers on satisfactory terms. TLCVision will have difficulty generating revenue if the Company is unable to enter into or maintain agreements on satisfactory terms with doctors or other health care providers. Most states prohibit the Company from practicing medicine, employing doctors to practice medicine on the Company’s behalf, or employing optometrists to render optometric services on the Company’s behalf. In most states TLCVision may only own and manage centers and enter into affiliations with doctors and other health care providers. Also, affiliated doctors have provided a significant source of patients for the Company’s refractive centers and that is expected to continue. Accordingly, the success of the Company’s business depends upon its ability to enter into agreements on acceptable terms with a sufficient number of health care providers, including institutions and eye care doctors to render or arrange surgical and other professional services at facilities TLCVision owns or manages. Quarterly fluctuations in operating results make financial forecasting difficult. The Company experienced significant fluctuations in quarterly loss during 2009, ranging from a first quarter net loss attributable to TLC Vision Corporation of $1.3 million to a fourth quarter net loss attributable to TLC Vision Corporation of $18.5 million. TLCVision may experience future quarterly losses, which may exceed prior quarterly losses. The Company’s expense levels will be based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. Historically, quarterly results of operations have varied, and future results may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance or annual operating results. Quarterly results will depend on numerous factors, including the Company’s bankruptcy proceedings, economic conditions in our geographic markets, market acceptance of our services, seasonal factors, availability of capital under our credit and DIP facilities, and other factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may make investments that may not be profitable. The Company makes investments that are intended to support its business strategy, generally targeted to companies in the laser vision correction or doctor services businesses. In addition, the Company evaluates the strategic fit of current operations and investments, and has sought to divest those that we do not believe fit our strategy or enhance stockholder value. If the Company is unable to successfully manage its current and future investments, if those investments are not profitable or do not generate the expected returns, or if TLCVision is not successful in completing divestitures or achieving its targeted exit valuation, then future operating results may be adversely impacted. Technological changes could occur rendering our equipment or services obsolete, requiring the Company to make significant capital expenditures or modify its business model, which could cause revenues or profitability to decline. Industry, competitive or clinical factors, among others, may require the Company to introduce alternate ophthalmic laser technology or other surgical or non-surgical methods for correcting refractive vision disorders than those that we currently use in our laser vision correction centers. Such alternative technologies could include various intraocular lens technologies or other new technologies. Introducing such technology could require significant capital investment or force us to modify our business model in such a way as to make our revenues or profits decline. An increase in costs could reduce our ability to maintain our profit margin. An increase in prices could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s refractive centers strategy partially depends on the Company’s ability to successfully execute direct to consumer advertising programs. The success of TLCVision’s refractive centers strategy is partially dependent on increasing the number of procedures at TLC Laser Eye Centers through the Company’s consumer advertising programs. The success of this direct to consumer advertising is dependent upon several factors, including the Company’s ability to: • cost-effectively generate procedures through advertising programs; • allocate the funds necessary to support consumer advertising programs; • develop consumer advertising as a competency in the Company; and • maintain a reliable contact management center, including call center operations and lead follow-up programs. The Company also features athletes who are TLCVision patients in its marketing efforts. Actions taken by athletes who are featured in our marketing efforts that harm the reputation of those athletes could also harm our brand image with prospective patients and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. The Company’s long-term success will depend, in part, on its ability to open new centers, make acquisitions, or enter into affiliate arrangements. To an extent, the general growth of the Company will be dependent on increasing the number of eye care centers through internal development or acquisitions and entering into affiliate arrangements with local eye care professionals. Opening new centers involves many challenges, including: • the integration of operations and technologies into existing platforms; • hiring and training personnel to staff the center; • developing and implementing effective marketing programs to attract potential patients to the center; and • managing the losses incurred during the development and ramp-up period. Acquiring an existing center presents these same operational challenges, and additional special risks, including: • identifying unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; • diversion of management attention; and • possible adverse effects on operating results resulting from: • possible future goodwill impairment; • increased interest costs; • the issuance of additional securities; and • increased costs resulting from difficulties related to the integration of the acquired businesses. The Company’s ability to achieve growth through acquisitions will depend on a number of factors, including: • the availability of attractive acquisition opportunities; • the availability of capital to complete acquisitions; • the availability of working capital to fund the operations of acquired businesses; and • the effect of existing and emerging competition on operations. TLCVision may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, if at all, or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations. The Company’s past and possible future acquisitions may not achieve adequate levels of revenue, profitability or productivity, or may not otherwise perform as expected. The Company must successfully balance demand for refractive surgery with its operating costs, particularly in its refractive centers and refractive access segments. The demand for refractive surgery declined approximately 27% and 26% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Both the Company’s refractive centers and refractive access segments have been adversely impacted by this slowing of demand. In response, the Company has reduced costs through a variety of initiatives including reductions in headcount, freezing or reducing salaries and benefits, decreases in discretionary spending including direct to consumer marketing, reductions in overhead costs, and the closure of 26 Table of Contents underperforming refractive centers/mobile refractive routes. There is no guarantee that these cost reduction initiatives will achieve their intended savings targets or that these reductions will be sufficient to maintain earnings or positive cash flow. Additionally, reductions in direct to consumer marketing may impact the level of demand in our refractive centers segment. The Company depends on key personnel whose loss could adversely affect its business. TLCVision’s success and growth depends in part on the active participation of key medical and management personnel. The Company maintains key person insurance for several key ophthalmologists. Despite having this insurance in place, the loss of any one of these key individuals could adversely affect the quality, profitability and growth prospects of business operations. The Company has employment or similar agreements with the key personnel. The terms of these agreements include, in some cases, entitlements to severance payments in the event of termination of employment by either TLCVision or the employee. The Company may be subject to malpractice and other similar claims and may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate insurance against these claims. The provision of medical services at the Company’s centers entails an inherent risk of potential malpractice and other similar claims. All of the Company’s U.S. professional malpractice insurance has a $250,000 deductible per claim for claims filed prior to May 1, 2009 and $50,000 per claim for those filed subsequent to May 1, 2009. Patients at the Company’s centers execute informed consent statements prior to any procedure performed by doctors, but these consents may not provide adequate liability protection. Although TLCVision does not engage in the practice of medicine or have responsibility for compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to doctors and doctor groups, claims, suits or complaints relating to services provided at the Company’s centers may be asserted against TLCVision in the future, and the assertion or outcome of these claims could result in higher administrative and legal expenses, including settlement costs or litigation damages. The Company currently maintains malpractice insurance coverage and accruals that it believes are adequate both as to risks and amounts covered. In addition, TLCVision requires the doctors who provide medical services to maintain comprehensive professional liability insurance. Further, most of these doctors have agreed to indemnify the Company against certain malpractice and other claims. TLCVision’s insurance coverage, however, may not be adequate to satisfy claims, insurance maintained by the doctors may not protect the Company, and such indemnification may not be enforceable or, if enforced, may not be sufficient. The Company’s inability to obtain adequate insurance or an increase in the future cost of insurance to TLCVision and the doctors who provide medical services at the centers may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The excimer laser system uses hazardous gases which if not properly contained could result in injury. The Company may not have adequate insurance for liabilities arising from injuries caused by the excimer laser system or hazardous gases. While the Company believes that any claims alleging defects in its excimer laser systems would usually be covered by the manufacturers’ product liability insurance, the manufacturers of the Company’s excimer laser systems may not continue to carry adequate product liability insurance. The Company may face claims for federal, state and local taxes. TLCVision operates in 48 states and three Canadian provinces and is subject to various federal, state, provincial and local income, payroll, unemployment, property, franchise, capital, sales and use tax on operations, payroll, assets and services. The Company endeavors to comply with all such applicable tax regulations, many of which are subject to different interpretations, and has hired outside tax advisors who assist in the process. Many states and other taxing authorities have been interpreting laws and regulations more aggressively to the detriment of taxpayers. The Company believes that it has adequate provisions and accruals in the financial statements for tax liabilities, although TLCVision cannot predict the outcome of future tax assessments. Compliance with industry regulations in the U.S. is costly and burdensome. TLCVision’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. The Company’s efforts to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may impose significant costs, and failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may result in fines or other charges being imposed. The Company has incurred significant costs, and expects to incur future costs in connection with compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company’s failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including provisions relating to internal financial controls, could have a material adverse effect on TLCVision. Many state laws limit or prohibit corporations from practicing medicine and optometry, and many federal and state laws extensively regulate the solicitation of prospective patients, the structure of fees and contractual arrangements with hospitals, surgery 27 Table of Contents centers, ophthalmologists and optometrists, among others. Some states also impose licensing requirements. Although the Company attempts to structure its business and contractual relationships in compliance with these laws in all material respects, if any aspect of its operations was found to violate applicable laws, the Company could be subject to significant fines or other penalties, be required to cease operations in a particular jurisdiction, be prevented from commencing operations in a particular state or otherwise be required to revise the structure of its business or legal arrangements. Many of these laws and regulations are ambiguous, have not been definitively interpreted by courts or regulatory authorities, and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to predict how these laws and regulations will be interpreted or applied by courts and regulatory authorities, and some of the Company’s activities could be challenged. Reform to the U.S. health care system has been enacted in various federal and state legislatures over the past several years and may continue to change in the future. To respond to any such changes, the Company could be required to revise the structure of its legal arrangements or its fee structure, incur substantial legal fees, fines or other costs, or curtail some of the Company’s business activities, reducing the potential profit of some of its arrangements. State medical boards and state boards of optometry generally set limits on the activities of ophthalmologists and optometrists. In some instances, issues have been raised as to whether participation in a co-management program violates some of these limits. If a state authority were to find that the Company’s co-management program did not comply with state licensing laws, TLCVision would be required to revise the structure of its legal arrangements or curtail operations, and affiliated doctors might terminate their relationships with the Company. Federal and state civil and criminal statutes impose penalties, including substantial civil and criminal fines and imprisonment, on health care providers and persons who provide services to health care providers, including management businesses such as TLCVision, for fraudulently or wrongfully billing government or other insurers. In addition, the federal law prohibiting false Medicare/Medicaid billings allows a private person to bring a civil action in the name of the U.S. government for violations of its provisions and obtain a portion of the damages if the action is successful. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with these billing laws, but the business could be adversely affected if governmental authorities were to scrutinize or challenge the Company’s activities or private parties were to assert a false claim or action against TLCVision in the name of the U.S. government. Although the Company believes that it has obtained the necessary licenses or certificates of need in states where such licenses are required and that the Company is not required to obtain any licenses in other states, some of the state regulations governing the need for such licenses are unclear, and there is no applicable precedent or regulatory guidance to help resolve these issues. A state regulatory authority could determine that TLCVision is operating a center inappropriately without a required license or certificate of need, which could subject the Company to significant fines or other penalties, result in TLCVision being required to cease operations in a state or otherwise jeopardize business and financial results. If the Company expands to a new geographic market, it may be unable to obtain any new license required in that jurisdiction. Compliance with additional health care regulations in Canada is costly and burdensome. Some Canadian provinces have adopted conflict of interest regulations that prohibit optometrists, ophthalmologists or corporations they own or control from receiving benefits from suppliers of medical goods or services to whom they refer patients. The laws of some Canadian provinces also prohibit health care professionals from splitting fees with non-health care professionals and prohibit non-licensed entities such as TLCVision from practicing medicine or optometry and from directly employing physicians or optometrists. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with these requirements, but a review of the Company’s operations by Canadian regulators or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing Canadian legal requirements or the adoption of new requirements could require significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future or require the Company to change the structure of our arrangements with doctors. Compliance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations regarding the use of excimer laser systems for laser correction is costly and burdensome. To date, the FDA has approved excimer laser systems manufactured by some manufacturers for sale for the treatment of nearsightedness, farsightedness and astigmatism up to stated levels of correction. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements with respect to the use of the excimer laser could subject the Company, its affiliated doctors or laser manufacturers to enforcement action, including product seizure, recalls, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. The FDA has adopted guidelines in connection with the approval of excimer laser systems for laser vision correction. The FDA, however, has also stated that decisions by doctors and patients to proceed outside the FDA-approved guidelines are a practice of medicine decision, which the FDA is not authorized to regulate. Failure to comply with FDA requirements or any adverse FDA action, 28 Table of Contents including a reversal of its interpretation with respect to the practice of medicine, could result in a limitation on or prohibition of the Company’s use of excimer lasers. Discovery of problems, violations of current laws or future legislative or administrative action in the United States or elsewhere may adversely affect the laser manufacturers’ ability to obtain regulatory approval of laser equipment. Furthermore, the failure of other excimer laser manufacturers to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign regulatory requirements, or any adverse action against or involving such manufacturers, could limit the supply of excimer lasers, substantially increase the cost of excimer lasers, limit the number of patients that can be treated at the Company’s centers and limit TLCVision’s ability to use excimer lasers. Most of the Company’s eye care centers and access sites in the United States use VISX excimer lasers. If VISX, or other excimer laser manufacturers, fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign regulatory requirements, or if any adverse regulatory action is taken against or involves such manufacturers, the supply of lasers could be limited and the cost of excimer lasers could increase. The Roll-On/Roll-Off laser system consists of an excimer laser mounted on a motorized, air suspension platform and transported in a specially modified truck. The Company believes that use of this transport system does not require FDA approval; the FDA has taken no position in regard to such approval. The FDA could, however, take the position that excimer lasers are not approved for use in this transport system. Such a view by the FDA could lead to an enforcement action against the Company, which could impede TLCVision’s ability to maintain or increase its volume of excimer laser surgeries. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Similarly, the Company believes that FDA approval is not required for TLCVision’s mobile use of microkeratomes or the cataract equipment transported by the Company’s mobile cataract operations. The FDA, however, could take a contrary position that could result in an enforcement action. Healthcare reform may impact the Company’s business. Healthcare reform enacted in the United States may bring significant changes in the financing and regulation of the healthcare industry. Depending on the nature of such changes, they could have a material adverse effect on TLCVision’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Disputes with respect to intellectual property could adversely affect TLCVision’s business. There has been substantial litigation in the United States and Canada regarding the patents on ophthalmic lasers. Although TLCVision currently leases or purchases excimer lasers and other technology from the manufacturers, if the use of an excimer laser or other procedure performed at any of the Company’s centers is deemed to infringe a patent or other proprietary right, the Company may be prohibited from using the equipment or performing the procedure that is the subject of the patent dispute or may be required to obtain a royalty-bearing license, which may involve substantial costs, including ongoing royalty payments. If a license is not available on acceptable terms, the Company may be required to seek the use of products which do not infringe the patent. TLCVision has also secured patents for portions of the equipment it uses to transport mobile lasers. TLCVision patents and other proprietary technology are important to the Company’s success. These patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. Litigation regarding intellectual property is common and the Company’s patents may not adequately protect its intellectual property. Defending and prosecuting intellectual property proceedings is costly and involves substantial commitments of management time. Failure to successfully defend the Company’s rights with respect to TLCVision’s intellectual property may require the payment of damages and/or ceasing the use of equipment to transport mobile lasers, which may have a material adverse effect on business. The ability of our shareholders to effect changes in control of the Company is limited. TLCVision has a shareholder rights plan enabling the Board of Directors to delay a change in control of the Company, which could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company, even if an attempt would be beneficial to the interests of the shareholders. In addition, since TLCVision is a Canadian corporation, investments in the Company may be subject to the provisions of the Investment Canada Act. In general, this act provides a system for the notification to the Investment Canada agency of acquisitions of Canadian businesses by non-Canadian investors and for the review by the Investment Canada agency of acquisitions that meet thresholds specified in the act. To the extent that a non-Canadian person or company attempted to acquire 33% or more of TLCVision’s outstanding common shares, the threshold for a presumption of control, the transaction could be reviewable by the Investment Canada agency. The Investment Canada Act also applies to a change of control effected by a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 29 Table of Contents The Company has entered into a plan sponsor agreement dated February 3, 2010, as amended (the Plan Sponsor Agreement), backed by affiliates of Charlesbank and H.I.G. Pursuant to the Plan Sponsor Agreement, the Company and its directors, officers and other representatives are prohibited from soliciting other proposals to acquire 50% or more of the outstanding equity of the Company or other acquisition or capital restructuring transactions involving the Company or its subsidiaries. In addition, the Company’s Board of Directors may only accept or recommend unsolicited proposals that meet the definition of “Superior Proposal” contained in the Plan Sponsor Agreement. In such a circumstance, as well as other circumstances set forth in the Plan Sponsor Agreement, the Company would be obligated to pay a $5.0 million termination fee and Charlesbank’s expenses up to a maximum of $2.0 million. These factors and others could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company supported by shareholders but opposed by our Board of Directors. We have significant tax net operating loss carryovers that may not be utilized. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has net operating losses available for carry forward for income tax purposes of approximately $100.8 million, which may be available to reduce taxable income in future years. There is no guarantee that all, if any, of the Company’s net operating losses will be utilized in future periods. See Note 17, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 