Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are factors that could affect our future performance: Our revenues are unpredictable because most of our facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, and our revenues and results of operations depend on market and competitive forces that are beyond our control. We sell capacity, energy and ancillary services from our generating facilities into competitive power markets on a short-term fixed price basis or through power sales agreements. Since mid-2007, our revenues from selling capacity have become a significant part of our overall revenues. Except for our Potrero facility, we are not guaranteed recovery of our costs or any return on our capital investments through mandated rates. The market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond our control, including the balance of supply and demand, our competitors’ marginal and long run costs of production, and the effect of market regulation. Being concentrated in a few geographic markets results in concentrated exposure to those markets, especially PJM. The price for which we can sell our output may fluctuate on a day-to-day basis and our ability to transact may be affected by the overall liquidity in the markets in which we operate. The markets in which we compete remain subject to one or more forms of regulation that limit our ability to raise prices during periods of shortage to the degree that would occur in a fully deregulated market and may thereby limit our ability to recover costs and an adequate return on our investment. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • the failure of market regulators to develop and maintain efficient mechanisms to compensate merchant generators for the value of providing capacity needed to meet demand; • actions by regulators, ISOs, RTOs and other bodies that may prevent capacity and energy prices from rising to the level necessary for recovery of our costs, our investment and an adequate return on our investment; • legal and political challenges to the rules used to calculate capacity payments in the markets in which we operate; • the possibility that the appellate court considering the pending appeal of the FERC’s rulings that approved the RPM provisions of PJM’s tariff does not affirm the FERC’s approval of those provisions, resulting in modifications to the capacity payments made under that tariff in the future and possibly refunds for past periods; • the ability of wholesale purchasers of power to make timely payment for energy or capacity, which may be adversely affected by factors such as retail rate caps, refusals by regulators to allow utilities to recover fully their wholesale power costs and investments through rates, catastrophic losses and losses from investments by utilities in unregulated businesses; • increases in prevailing market prices for fuel oil, coal, natural gas and emissions allowances that may not be reflected in prices we receive for sales of energy; • increases in supplies as a result of actions of our current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generating facilities or alternative energy sources that may be able to produce electricity less expensively than our generating facilities and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach our markets; • decreases in energy consumption resulting from demand-side management programs such as automated demand response, which may alter the amount and timing of consumer energy use; • the competitive advantages of certain competitors, including continued operation of older power plants in strategic locations after recovery of historic capital costs from ratepayers; 24 Table of Contents • existing or future regulation of our markets by the FERC, ISOs and RTOs, including any price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the price volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; • regulatory policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of our customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for capacity in particular; • changes in the rate of growth in electricity usage as a result of such factors as national and regional economic conditions and implementation of conservation programs; • seasonal variations in energy and gas prices and capacity payments; and • seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular abnormal weather conditions. In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric energy can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced at the time of use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to substantial price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. The global financial crisis may have an effect on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an effect on our business and our financial condition. For example, in October 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and a lender under the senior secured revolving credit facility of our subsidiary, Mirant North America, filed for bankruptcy. As a result of the Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. bankruptcy, we expect that the total availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility has decreased from $800 million to $755 million, assuming that Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. does not honor its $45 million commitment. While we do not expect that the Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. bankruptcy will have a material adverse effect on Mirant, the credit crisis could negatively affect availability under the Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility if other lenders under such facility are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. Absent significant non-performance of lenders under the existing Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility, we think that we have sufficient liquidity for future operations (including potential working capital requirements) and capital expenditures as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” However, in the event of significant non-performance of lenders under the existing Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility, the credit crisis could have a negative effect on our ability to obtain new lines of credit if financial institutions are unwilling or unable to enter into new revolving credit facilities. In addition to the potential effect on our liquidity that could arise from the global financial crisis, the crisis could have a negative effect on the markets in which we sell power, purchase fuel and perform other trading and marketing activities. In recent years, global financial institutions have been active participants in such markets. As such financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints in response to the financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect on our ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk resulting from the possibility that a loss may occur from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement with us. Deterioration in the financial condition of our counterparties as a result of the global financial crisis and the resulting failure to pay amounts owed to us or to perform obligations or services owed to us beyond collateral posted could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Because of the current market design in California our generating facilities may have a limited life unless we make significant capital expenditures to increase their commercial and environmental performance. Our generating facilities in California depend almost entirely on payments in support of system reliability. The energy market, as currently constituted, will not justify the capital expenditures necessary to repower or 25 Table of Contents reconstruct our facilities to make them commercially viable in a merchant market. If a commercially reasonable capacity market were to be instituted by the CAISO or we could obtain a contract with a creditworthy buyer, it is possible that we could justify investing the necessary capital to repower or reconstruct our facilities. Absent that, our generating facilities will be commercially viable only as long as they are necessary for reliability. Changes in commodity prices may negatively affect our financial results by increasing the cost of producing power or lowering the price at which we are able to sell our power. Our generating business is subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, and these commodity prices are influenced by many factors outside our control, including weather, market liquidity, transmission and transportation inefficiencies, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, demand for energy commodities, production of natural gas, crude oil and coal, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, and federal, state and environmental regulation and legislation. Significant fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power and decreasing the amounts we receive from the sale of power. Specifically, significant fluctuations in the price of coal may affect the financial position of the coal suppliers with which we have contracted. In addition, significant fluctuations in the price of natural gas may cause significant fluctuations in the price of electricity. Our use of derivative financial instruments in our asset management activities will not fully protect us from fluctuations in commodity prices and our risk management policy cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. We engage in asset management activities related to sales of electricity and purchases of fuel. The income and losses from these activities are recorded as operating revenues and fuel costs. We may use forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments to manage market risk and exposure to volatility in prices of electricity, coal, natural gas, emissions and oil. We cannot provide assurance that these strategies will be successful in managing our price risks, or that they will not result in net losses to us as a result of future volatility in electricity, fuel and emissions markets. Actual power prices and fuel costs may differ from our expectations. Our asset management activities include natural gas derivative financial instruments that we use to hedge power prices for our baseload generation. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between power and natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. If those prices are not sufficiently correlated, our financial results and financial position could be adversely affected. Additionally, we expect to have an open position in the market, within our established guidelines, resulting from the management of our portfolio. To the extent open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can affect our financial results and financial position, either favorably or unfavorably. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not always work as planned. Unauthorized hedging and related activities by our employees could result in significant penalties and financial losses. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict the outcome that risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. Although management devotes considerable attention to these issues, their outcome is uncertain. We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and volatility and interruption in fuel supply because our facilities generally do not have long-term agreements for the supply of natural gas, coal and oil. Although we attempt to purchase fuel based on our expected fuel requirements, we still face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility. Our cost of fuel may not reflect changes in energy and fuel prices in part because we must pre-purchase inventories of coal and oil for reliability and dispatch requirements, and thus the price of fuel may have been determined at an earlier date than the price of energy generated from it. The price we can obtain from the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel costs. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The volatility of fuel prices could adversely affect our financial results and operations. 26 Table of Contents The average market price for the types of coal that we use was approximately 107% higher in the year ended December 31, 2008, than in 2007. Global demand for coal to generate electricity has been a significant factor influencing domestic prices for the types of coal that we use. At the same time, the prices for power and natural gas were extremely volatile, increasing during the first half of 2008 and decreasing during the second half of 2008. Fluctuations in natural gas prices have a significant effect on the price of power, especially in the PJM market where the marginal price for power is often set by gas-fired units. In 2008 as compared to 2007, the energy gross margin earned from our baseload coal units was negatively affected by contracting “dark spreads,” the difference between the price received for electricity generated compared to the market price of the coal required to produce the electricity. In the fourth quarter of 2008 and in early 2009, the average market price for the types of coal that we use declined from the highs observed earlier in 2008. However, the average market price for power also declined during the same period. We enter into contracts of varying terms to secure appropriate quantities of fuel that meet the varying specifications of our generating facilities. For our coal-fired generating facilities, we purchase coal from a variety of suppliers under contracts with terms of varying lengths, some of which extend to 2013. Our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities may increase the volatility of our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in asset management activities to hedge economically our exposure to market risk with respect to: (1) electricity sales from our generating facilities; (2) fuel used by those facilities; and (3) emissions allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative financial instruments. We also use derivative financial instruments with respect to our limited proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities, through which we attempt to achieve incremental returns by transacting where we have specific market expertise. Derivatives from our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value pursuant to SFAS 133. None of our derivatives recorded at fair value are designated as hedges under SFAS 133 and changes in their fair values are therefore recognized currently in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, our financial results—including gross margin, operating income and balance sheet ratios—will, at times, be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily because of changes in forward electricity and fuel prices. For a more detailed discussion of the accounting treatment of our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report. Operation of our generating facilities involves risks that may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. The operation of our generating facilities involves various operating risks, including, but not limited to: — the output and efficiency levels at which those generating facilities perform; — interruptions in fuel supply and quality of available fuel; — disruptions in the delivery of electricity; — adverse zoning; — breakdowns or equipment failures (whether a result of age or otherwise); — restrictions on emissions; — violations of our permit requirements or changes in the terms of or revocation of permits; — releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; — ability to transport and dispose of coal ash at reasonable prices; — shortages of equipment or spare parts; — labor disputes; 27 Table of Contents — operator errors; — curtailment of operations because of transmission constraints; — failures in the electricity transmission system which may cause large energy blackouts; — implementation of unproven technologies in connection with environmental improvements; and — catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar occurrences. If our facilities experience unplanned outages, we may be required to procure replacement power in the open market to satisfy contractual commitments. If we should lack adequate liquidity to post margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses and may miss significant opportunities, and we may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets. A decrease in, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our facilities or an increase in the costs of operating such facilities could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations, including cash flows available to us to make payments on our debt or our other obligations. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal variations in demand and fuel prices. We compete to sell energy, capacity and ancillary services in the wholesale power markets against some competitors that enjoy competitive advantages, including the ability to recover fixed costs through rate-base mechanisms and a lower cost of capital. Regulated utilities in the wholesale markets generally enjoy a lower cost of capital than we do and often are able to recover fixed costs through regulated retail rates, including, in many cases, the costs of generation, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generating facilities without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. The competitive advantages of such participants could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse impact on the revenues generated by our facilities. Our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements, including future changes to them. Our business is subject to extensive environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities, which, among other things, restrict the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and soil, and also govern the use of water from adjacent waterways. Such laws and regulations frequently require us to obtain permits and remain in continuous compliance with the conditions established by those permits. To comply with these legal requirements and the terms of our permits, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emissions allowances. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, injunctive relief and the imposition of liens or fines. We may be required to shut down facilities (including ash sites) if we are unable to comply with the requirements, or if we determine the expenditures required to comply are uneconomic. From time to time, we may not be able to obtain necessary environmental regulatory approvals. Such approvals could be delayed or subject to onerous conditions. If there is a delay in obtaining environmental regulatory approval or if onerous conditions are imposed, the operation of our generating facilities or ash sites or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. Such delays or onerous conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. In addition, environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are generally becoming more stringent, which may require us to make additional facility upgrades or restrict our operations. 28 Table of Contents Increased public concern and growing political pressure related to global warming have resulted in significant increases in the regulation of greenhouse gases, including CO2 at the state level. Future local, state and federal regulation of greenhouse gases is likely to create substantial environmental costs for us in the form of taxes or purchases of emissions allowances. Many of the states where we own generating facilities, including California, Maryland, Massachusetts and New York, have recently committed, or expressed an intent to commit, to mandatory reductions in statewide CO2 emissions through a regional cap-and-trade program. Maryland, Massachusetts and New York have already joined the RGGI, which required all allowances to be purchased initially through an auction process, the first of which took place in September 2008. Auctions, such as those mandated by the RGGI, may decrease the amount of available allowances and substantially increase emissions allowance prices. Because our generating facilities emit CO2, these regulations and similar future laws may significantly increase our operating costs. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and comparable state laws, impose strict and, in many circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of remediating contamination in soil, groundwater and elsewhere. Some of our facilities have areas with known soil and/or groundwater contamination. Releases of hazardous substances at our generating facilities, or at locations where we dispose of (or in the past disposed of) hazardous substances and other waste, could require us to spend significant sums to remediate contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. The discovery of significant contamination at our generating facilities, at disposal sites we currently use or have used, or at other locations for which we may be liable, or the failure or inability of parties contractually responsible to us for contamination to respond when claims or obligations regarding such contamination arise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Major environmental construction projects planned by 2010 at our Mid-Atlantic coal facilities may not meet their anticipated schedule, which would restrict these units from running at their maximum economic levels. If the operating constraints were sufficiently severe, Mirant Mid-Atlantic may not have sufficient cash flow to permit it to make distributions or, if more severe, to meet its obligations. Under the Maryland Healthy Air Act, we are required to reduce annual emissions below certain levels by January 2010. The levels established do not allow for the use of emissions allowances to meet the mandated levels. To meet these requirements, we are installing pollution control equipment on all of our Maryland coal-fired units. We may not have completed installation of or be able to operate this pollution control equipment by January 2010 because of a number of factors, including: — adverse weather conditions; — unanticipated cost increases; — engineering problems; — construction problems; — failure or delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals; — shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; — unscheduled delays in delivery of materials and equipment; and — work stoppages. Any of these factors may significantly increase the estimated costs of our environmental construction projects or result in a loss of cash flows from operations because of reduced unit operations. The expected decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations of certain of our generating facilities may negatively affect our cash flows. We expect that certain of our generating facilities and related properties will become subject to decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations that may require material expenditures. Furthermore, laws 29 Table of Contents and regulations may change to impose material additional decommissioning and remediation obligations on us in the future. If we are required to make material expenditures to decommission or remediate one or more of our facilities, such obligations will affect our cash flows and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our obligations. Our consolidated indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting or refinancing our obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated indebtedness was $2.676 billion. In addition, the present value of lease payments under the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases is approximately $1.0 billion (assuming a 10% discount rate) and the termination value of the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases is $1.4 billion. Our leverage and obligations under the leveraged leases could have important consequences, including the following: (1) it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; (2) a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; (3) the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy or refinance our financial obligations; (4) certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; (5) it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt and are not burdened by such obligations and restrictions; and (6) we may be more vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out capital expenditures that are important to our long-term growth or necessary to comply with environmental regulations. Mirant Corporation and its subsidiaries that are holding companies, including Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, may not have access to sufficient cash to meet their obligations if their subsidiaries, in particular, Mirant Mid-Atlantic, are unable to make distributions. We and certain of our subsidiaries, including Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, are holding companies and, as a result, we are dependent upon dividends, distributions and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations. The ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and distributions is restricted under the terms of their debt or other agreements. In particular, a significant portion of cash from our operations is generated by the power generating facilities of Mirant Mid-Atlantic. Under the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases, Mirant Mid-Atlantic is subject to a covenant that restricts its right to make distributions to its immediate parent, Mirant North America. In turn, Mirant North America is subject to covenants that restrict its ability to make distributions to its parent, Mirant Americas Generation. The ability of Mirant North America and Mirant Mid-Atlantic to satisfy the criteria set forth in their respective debt covenants in the future could be impaired by factors which negatively affect their financial performance, including interruptions in operation or curtailment of operations to comply with environmental restrictions, significant capital and other expenditures and adverse conditions in the power and fuel markets. Further, the Mirant North America senior notes and senior secured credit facilities include financial covenants that will exclude from the calculation the financial results of any subsidiary that is unable to make distributions or dividends at the time of such calculation. Thus, the inability of Mirant Mid-Atlantic to make distributions to Mirant North America under the leveraged lease transaction would have a material adverse effect on the calculation of the financial covenants under the senior notes and senior secured credit facilities of Mirant North America, including the leverage and interest coverage maintenance covenants under its senior credit facility. The obligations of Mirant Corporation and its holding company subsidiaries, including the indebtedness of Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, are effectively subordinated to the obligations or 30 Table of Contents indebtedness of their respective subsidiaries, including the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of restrictions on the ability of Mirant North America to make distributions to its parent, Mirant Americas Generation. We may be unable to generate sufficient liquidity to service our debt and to post required amounts of cash collateral necessary to hedge market risk effectively. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt depends on our future operating performance. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance. There can be no assurance that the terms of our debt will allow these alternative measures, that the financial markets will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. We seek to manage the risks associated with the volatility in the price at which we sell power produced by our generating facilities and in the prices of fuel, emissions allowances and other inputs required to produce such power by entering into hedging transactions. These asset management activities may require us to post collateral either in the form of cash or letters of credit. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $111 million of posted cash collateral and $301 million of letters of credit outstanding primarily to support our asset management activities, debt service and rent reserve requirements and other commercial arrangements. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report for further information on our posted cash collateral and letters of credit. While we seek to structure transactions in a way that reduces our potential liquidity needs for collateral, we may be unable to execute our hedging strategy successfully if we are unable to post the amount of collateral required to enter into and support hedging contracts. We are an active participant in energy exchange and clearing markets. These markets require a per contract initial margin to be posted, regardless of the credit quality of the participant. The initial margins are determined by the exchanges through the use of proprietary models that rely on a variety of inputs and factors, including market conditions. We have limited notice of any changes to the margin rates. Consequently, we are exposed to changes in the per unit margin rates required by the exchanges and could be required to post additional collateral on short notice. Our business is subject to complex government regulations. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities. Such costs, in turn, may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to regulation by the FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and rates, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of our generating facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, the FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generating business. Even where market-based rate authority has been granted, the FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires such potential market power to be mitigated. In addition to direct regulation by the FERC, most of our facilities are subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various ISOs and RTOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell and the price we receive for our energy, capacity and ancillary services. 31 Table of Contents To conduct our business, we must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities. These licenses, permits and approvals can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities. If we cannot comply with all applicable regulations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether the federal or state legislatures will adopt legislation relating to the restructuring of the energy industry. There are proposals in many jurisdictions that would either roll back or advance the movement toward competitive markets for the supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail levels. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could affect our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot provide assurance that the introductions of new laws, or other future regulatory developments, will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Changes in technology may significantly affect our generating business by making our generating facilities less competitive. We generate electricity using fossil fuels at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in those technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, future wars or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. As power generators, we face heightened risk of an act of terrorism, either a direct act against one of our generating facilities or an inability to operate as a result of systemic damage resulting from an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport our power. If such an attack were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, such an attack could affect our ability to service our indebtedness, our ability to raise capital and our future growth opportunities. Our operations are subject to hazards customary to the power generating industry. We may not have adequate insurance to cover all of these hazards. Our operations are subject to many hazards associated with the power generating industry, which may expose us to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquake, flood, storm surge, lightning, hurricane and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations. These hazards can cause significant injury to personnel or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate, but we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and our financial condition. 32 Table of Contents We are currently involved in significant litigation that, if decided adversely to us, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We are currently involved in various litigation matters, which are described in more detail in this Form 10-K. We intend to defend vigorously against those claims that we are unable to settle, but the results of this litigation cannot be determined. Adverse outcomes for us in this litigation could require significant expenditures by us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Table of Contents 