ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. If we fail to compete successfully domestically and internationally, our business and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Competition that we face in our markets is intense. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: • the ability to provide and sell a broad range of products and services that are responsive to changing technology and changing customer requirements; • product performance; • price; 12 Table of Contents • the ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages; • the ability to reduce production costs; • the ability to provide value-added features; • the ability to successfully integrate our products with, and operate our products on, existing customer platforms; • market presence; and • the ability to extend credit to our partners. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved performance characteristics. New product introductions by our current or future competitors, or our delay in bringing new products to market to compete with competitive products, could cause a significant decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products and future products. We believe that the possible effects from ongoing competition may be the reduction in the prices of our products and our competitors’ products, the introduction of additional lower priced competitive products or the introduction of new products or product platforms that render our existing products or technologies obsolete. For example, our video network systems product revenues had declined sequentially since the fourth quarter of 2004 until the second quarter of 2006, as a result of sales lost to competitors as well as lower average selling prices due in part to competitive pressures. While revenues from our video network systems product revenues improved sequentially in the third and fourth quarters of 2006, they were lower than the comparable year ago period, and could decline again in the future. Competition that we face in our markets is intense and competition that we face in certain of our international markets is different than that we face in North America and is currently based principally on price. We have noted additional competitors and increased pricing pressures in China, India and other parts of Asia contributing to decreased revenues in Asia in 2005 as compared to 2004. Although we have had improved year over year performance in Asia in 2006, we still see increased competition in this region, particularly in China. If we are unable to compete effectively in these regions in terms of price, technology, product offerings or marketing strategies, our overall financial results may suffer. Competition in each of our markets is intense, and the failure to perform in any of these markets could negatively affect our results of operations. We face significant competition in the communications industry. In video communications, our major competitors include Tandberg and a number of other companies including Aethra, Avistar, Cisco Systems, D-Link, Hewlett-Packard, Huawei, Kedacom Technologies, NEC, Panasonic, Sony, VCON, VTEL and ZTE, as well as various smaller or new industry entrants. Some of these companies have substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products. In addition, with advances in telecommunications standards, connectivity and video processing technology, next generation high definition video resolution technology and the increasing market acceptance of video communications, other established or new companies may develop or market products competitive with our video conferencing products or may partner with companies which have more substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market or sell their products and to bring their products to market more rapidly than we can. We may also underestimate the demand for particular products that incorporate new technologies. For instance, products utilizing next generation high definition video resolution technology are being brought to market by us and certain of our competitors, which may not receive market acceptance or may result in a slowdown in our sales cycle for our video products. These factors could negatively impact our video revenues as customers assess such new technologies or wait to make purchases until sales prices for such next generation products fall. Also, 13 Table of Contents new strategic partnerships are regularly being formed and announced by our competitors, which may increase competition and result in increased downward pressure on our product prices. We have lost group video conferencing sales opportunities to our competitors, including to competitors in China who sell at lower price points. Although we had improved year over year performance in Asia in 2006, we still see increased competition in this region, particularly in China, which we believe contributed to a sequential decrease in group video conferencing unit sales in Asia in the third quarter of 2006. We expect to continue to face stiff competition, and our competitors may gain market share from us, due in part to their strategic relationships and their latest product offerings. In addition, we believe we will face increasing competition from alternative video communications solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies from companies such as Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft, and WebEx that enable web-based or network-based video and collaboration communications. In addition, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft or another large multi-national company with resources substantially larger than ours, could enter any of our markets through acquisition of a direct competitor, which would significantly change the competitive landscape. The market for voice communications equipment, including voice conferencing and desktop equipment, is highly competitive and also subject to rapid technological change, regulatory developments and emerging industry standards. We expect competition to persist and increase in the future in this area. In voice communications, our major competitors include Aethra, ClearOne Communications, Konftel, Mitel and other companies that offer lower cost, full-duplex speakerphones. There are also several low cost manufacturers in Asia and Europe that are emerging with VoIP desktop products competitive with ours. In addition, there are notable PBX and IP Call Manager manufacturers that compete with standards based IP products including Alcatel, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Mitel, Nortel and Siemens. Furthermore, all major telephony manufacturers produce hands-free speakerphone units that cost less than our voice communications products. Our video network systems business has significant direct competition from RADVISION, and a number of other companies, including Cisco Systems, which resells RADVISION’s products, Tandberg, and Huawei, as well as from various smaller or new industry entrants. Our video network systems product revenues declined sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2004 until the second quarter of 2006 as a result of sales lost to competitors as well as lower average selling prices due in part to competitive pressures. Our audio network systems business has significant competition from companies such as Avaya, Cisco Systems, and Compunetix, which we continued to see in 2006. Although we recently launched our next generation video network system platform (RMX 2000) and intend to launch new network services product offerings in the future, these new product offerings have been delayed and may continue to be delayed or may not have as much of a positive impact on our network systems revenues as we anticipate. For our services business, we do not currently experience any significant competition from any third party maintenance and support companies. Third party maintenance companies may become a threat to our service base in the future, as the industry grows and they look at our products as potential third party service revenue streams, in addition to trying to provide one service solution to their customers. Today, some of our channel partners resell Polycom maintenance and support services, while others sell their own maintenance and support services. To the extent that channel partners sell their own services rather than ours, although they purchase maintenance contracts from us to support their service offering, these partners compete with us. In addition, as we expand our professional services offerings, we may compete more directly with system integrators. In addition, it is possible that we will see increased competition in all of our product lines to the extent that one or more of our competitors join together either through mutual agreement or acquisitions to form new partnerships to compete against us. These competitors on a stand-alone basis or on a combined basis could have more substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products. 14 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our products and product development, including new product introductions and transitions. Our success depends on our ability to assimilate new technologies in our products and to properly train our channel partners and sales force in the use of those products. The markets for video and voice communications and network systems products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as the recent demand for high definition video technology and lower cost network systems products, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction of new products, proper positioning of new products in relation to our total product portfolio and their relative pricing, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. Additionally, properly addressing the complexities associated with compatibility issues, channel partner and sales force training, technical and sales support, as well as field support, are also factors that may affect our success. We continually need to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion as to the desirability of the new product offering compared to our existing product offerings. During the last year, we launched several new product offerings, and there is a risk that these new products could cause confusion among our channel partners and end-users, thereby causing them to delay purchases of any product until they determine if these products are more desirable products than our legacy products. For instance, in 2005, we introduced the VSX7000e and VSX7000s as successors to our legacy VSX 7000 product, which caused confusion among certain of our channel partners, some of whom delayed purchases of these new product offerings until they better understood the features and functionality of these products. Similarly, our recently introduced high definition video product family (HDX) may cause confusion with respect to our VSX product line. Such delays in purchases could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and operating results in the period of the delay. The shift in communications from circuit-switched to IP-based technologies over time may require us to add new channel partners, enter new markets, such as the service provider market, which we entered into with the acquisition of Voyant in January 2004, and gain new core technological competencies. We are attempting to address these needs and the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts, through joint developments with other companies and through acquisitions. We may not identify successful new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely manner. Further, as we introduce new products that can or will render existing products obsolete, these product transition cycles may not go smoothly, causing an increased risk of inventory obsolescence and relationship issues with our end user customers and channel partners. The failure of our new product development efforts, any inability to service or maintain the necessary third-party interoperability licenses, our inability to properly manage product transitions or to anticipate new product demand, or our inability to enter new markets would harm our business and results of operations. We may experience delays in product introductions and our products may contain defects which could seriously harm our results of operations. We have experienced delays in the introduction of certain new products and enhancements in the past and have recently experienced delays in the introduction of our high definition video conferencing products. The delays in product release dates that we experienced in the past were due to factors such as unforeseen technology issues, manufacturing ramping issues and other factors, which we believe negatively impacted our sales revenue in the relevant periods. Any of these or other factors may occur again and delay our future product releases. In addition, we have occasionally terminated new product development efforts prior to any introduction of the new product. Further, our video communications product development group is located in Massachusetts and Texas, our voice communications product development group is dispersed among California, Georgia, Massachusetts and Canada, and our network systems product development group is dispersed among Colorado, Georgia and Israel. Our need to manage large and geographically dispersed product development groups in our product lines results 15 Table of Contents in certain inefficiencies and increased product development costs and creates an increased risk of delays in new product introductions. We produce highly complex communications equipment, which includes both hardware and software and incorporates new technologies and component parts from different suppliers. Resolving product defect and technology issues could cause delays in new product introduction. Further, if such defects are not detected or cured prior to a new product launch, or are detected after a product has already been launched and cannot be cured or result in a product recall, such as our voluntary recall of the lithium ion batteries in our SoundStation 2W™ products in the first quarter of 2006, these events could result in the failure of a partial or entire product line, a temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from the market, product reengineering expenses, and inventory costs. Any delays in the future for new product offerings currently under development or any product defect issues or product recalls could adversely affect the market acceptance of these products, our ability to compete effectively in the market, and our reputation, and therefore, could lead to decreased product sales and could seriously harm our results of operations. We face risks related to the adoption rate of new technologies. We have invested significant resources developing products that are dependent on the adoption rate of new technologies. For example, our SoundStation IP™ and SoundPoint IP™ products are dependent on the roll out of voice-over-IP, or VoIP, technologies. In addition, VoIP products are traditionally sold through service providers. We may not be successful in expanding our current service provider network or maintaining a successful service provider network. The success of our VSX 3000™ and PVX™ software application products depend on the increased use of desktop video collaboration technologies. Further, as we see the adoption rate of new technologies increase, product sales of our legacy products may be negatively impacted. The success of all of our products is also dependent on how quickly Session Initiation Protocol (or SIP), which is a signaling protocol for Internet conferencing, telephony, presence, events notification and instant messaging, firewall and Network Address Translation (or NAT) traversal, which is an Internet standard that enables a local-area network (or LAN) to use one set of IP addresses for internal traffic and a second set of addresses for external traffic, and call management integration technologies are deployed as new technologies and how quickly we adopt and integrate these new technologies into our existing and future products. The success of our V2IU and firewall traversal solutions will depend on market acceptance and the effect of current and potential competitors and competitive products. In addition, we continue to expend significant resources to develop new products or product enhancements based upon anticipated demand for new features and functionality, such as next generation high definition video resolution technology. We may not be able to sell certain of our products in significant volumes and our business may be harmed if the use of new technologies that our future products are based on does not occur, if the development of suitable sales channels does not occur, or occurs more slowly than expected, if our products that incorporate new technologies are not priced competitively or are not readily adopted, or if the adoption rates of such new technologies do not drive demand for our other products as we anticipate. For example, although we believe increased sales of group and desktop video solutions will drive increased demand for video network system products, such increased demand may not occur or we may not benefit to the same extent as our competitors. Lower than expected market acceptance of our products, price competition and other price changes would negatively impact our business. If the market does not accept our products, our profitability would likely be harmed. Our profitability could also be negatively affected in the future as a result of continuing competitive price pressures in the sale of video 16 Table of Contents and voice conferencing equipment and network systems, which could cause us to reduce the prices for any of these products or discontinue one product with the intent of simplifying our product offering and enhancing sales of a similar product. For example, we believe that the sequential declines in video network system revenues that we experienced from the fourth quarter of 2004 until the second quarter of 2006, are due in part to lower average selling prices as a result of increased competitive pressures. Further, we have reduced prices in the past in order to expand the market for our products, and in the future, we may further reduce prices, introduce new products that carry lower margins in order to expand the market or stimulate demand for our products, or discontinue existing products as a means of stimulating growth in a similar product. Effective July 1, 2006, we began to separately charge for the initial year of service for our video conferencing products rather than charging one combined price for the product and service. These actions may not have the desired result of increasing revenues and improving service renewal rates and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on our product margins and profitability. In addition, we anticipate that our gross margins may become more difficult to predict due to these types of changes, the wide range of margins associated with each of our product lines, and shifts in the mix of products sold. Our network systems products typically have higher gross margins than our other product lines. Therefore, our gross margins could decrease if we continue to experience decreases in our network systems product sales. Product obsolescence, excess inventory and other asset impairment can negatively affect our results of operations. We operate in a high technology industry which is subject to rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes. These changes can often render existing or developing technologies obsolete. In addition, the introduction of new products and any related actions to discontinue existing products can cause existing inventory to become obsolete. These obsolescence issues can require write-downs in inventory value when it is determined that the recorded value of existing inventory is greater than its fair market value, such as we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2005 with excess ViewStation® inventory and in the third quarter of 2006 with excess QSX™ and ViewStation inventory. Also, the pace of change in technology development and in the release of new products has increased and is expected to continue to increase. If sales of one of these products has an unplanned negative effect on sales of another of our products, it could significantly increase the inventory levels of the negatively impacted product. For each of our products, the potential exists for new products to render existing products obsolete, cause inventories of existing products to increase, cause us to discontinue a product or reduce the demand for existing products. Since 2001, we have purchased several businesses, which together include goodwill valued at approximately $356.8 million and other purchased intangible assets valued at approximately $12.9 million as of December 31, 2006. This represents a significant portion of the assets recorded on our balance sheet, and we expect that these amounts will increase significantly as a result of the recent Destiny acquisition and the anticipated SpectraLink acquisition. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or sooner under certain circumstances. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating fundamentals, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a charge to operations will not occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values, as we did in the fourth quarters of 2005 and 2006, when we wrote down certain intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Voyant in the amount of $1.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively. If and when these write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have made investments in private companies which we classify as “Other assets” on our balance sheet. The value of these investments is influenced by many factors, including the operating 17 Table of Contents effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies’ industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. To date, due to these and other factors, we have recorded cumulative charges against earnings totaling $14.1 million associated with the impairment of these investments, including $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. As of December 31, 2006, our investments in private companies are valued at $8.9 million. We may make additional investments in private companies which would be subject to similar impairment risks, and these impairment risks may cause us to write down the recorded value of any such investments. Further, we cannot assure you that future inventory, investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not happen. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. Failure to adequately service and support our products could harm our results of operations. Our products are becoming increasingly more complex and are incorporating more complex technologies, such as those included in our network systems products, our new video product offerings and our software products. This has increased the need for product warranty and service capabilities. If we cannot develop and train our internal support organization or maintain our relationship with our outside technical support provider, it could harm our business. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and are not necessarily a good indicator of future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, principally due to (i) the changing global economic environment, (ii) increased competition as we have seen in Asia, particularly in China and India, across all product lines and globally with respect to video and network systems product lines, (iii) the development of new partnerships, such as the relationships between Tandberg and Cisco Systems and Sony and Cisco Systems in our video product line, and (iv) increased competition from larger companies like Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard; • the prices and performance of our products and those of our existing or potential new competitors, which can change rapidly due to technological innovations; • the timing, size and mix of the orders for our products; • whether growth of our VoIP product sales will negatively impact sales of our circuit-switched products and whether VoIP product sales will serve as an effective driver for sales of our IP-based video solutions, as we anticipate; • changes in tax rates; • changes in the underlying factors and assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables used in the option-pricing model to determine stock-based compensation which may result in significant variability in the stock-based compensation costs we record, making such amounts difficult to accurately predict; • slowing sales by our channel partners to their customers, which places further pressure on our channel partners to minimize inventory levels and reduce purchases of our products; • changes to our channel partner programs, contracts and strategy that could result in a reduction in the number of channel partners or could cause more of our channel partners to add our competitors’ products to their portfolio; • the level and mix of inventory that we hold to meet future demand; • fluctuations in the level of international sales and our exposure to the impact of international currency fluctuations on both revenues and expenses; 18 Table of Contents • dependence on third party manufacturers, which would include outside development manufacturers, and associated manufacturing costs; • the magnitude of any costs that we must incur in the event of a product recall, such as our recent voluntary recall in the first quarter of 2006 of the lithium ion batteries in our SoundStation 2W products, or of costs associated with product warranty claims; • the impact of seasonality on our various product lines and geographic regions; • the impact of greater exposure to foreign currency fluctuations due to an increasing number of our product sales being denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies; and • adverse outcomes in intellectual property matters and the costs associated with asserting and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio. As a result of these and potentially other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market securities analysts or investors, our stock price will likely decline. We experience seasonal demand for our products and services, which may adversely impact our results of operations during certain periods. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our third and first quarters. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the European region in the third quarter of each year and sales to government entities typically slow in our fourth quarter and to a greater extent in our first quarter. In addition, sales of our video conferencing products have typically declined in the first quarter of the year compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year. We also saw a sequential decrease in group video conferencing unit sales in Europe and Asia in the third quarter of 2006, which we believe may be attributable to seasonality or other factors. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters, as they did in the first quarter of 2005. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales may occur at the end of a quarter and certain of our service provider contracts include contractual acceptance provisions. The timing of our channel partner orders and product shipments can harm our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend in large part upon the volume and timing of channel partner orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as revenue during each quarter, each of which is extremely difficult to forecast. Moreover, although we have seen better sales linearity throughout 2006, a substantial portion of our orders in a given quarter are shipped in the last month of that quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of the quarter. Also, our backlog has fluctuated significantly over our corporate history. We believe that backlog levels will continue to fluctuate due to many factors such as ability of our sales force to generate orders linearly throughout the quarter, our ability to forecast revenue mix and plan our manufacturing accordingly, customer request dates, timing of product acceptance where contractually required and ongoing service deferrals as service revenues increase as a percent of total revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could significantly negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. As a result, our backlog could decline in future quarters, even to zero. Any degradation in linearity levels or any failure or delay in the closing of orders during the last part of a quarter would materially harm our operating results. Furthermore, we may be unable to ship products in the period we receive the order due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. In such events, the price of our common stock would decline. 19 Table of Contents Difficulty in estimating future channel partner orders can harm our operating results, the establishment of product lead times to maximize our inventory efficiency and our focus on operations efficiency in the logistics area. Revenues for any particular quarter are extremely difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We typically ship products within a short time after we receive an order and therefore, backlog is not a good indicator of future revenues. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn significantly negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. Accordingly, our expectations for both short and long-term future revenues are based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand and not on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, the majority of our audio and video network system orders are received in the last month of a quarter, typically the last few weeks of that quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. We historically have received a majority of our channel partner orders in the last month of a quarter and often in the last few weeks of the quarter. In the event that order linearity once again degrades to the levels we have experienced in the past, where the majority of our sales occurred in the last month of the quarter, or if for any reason orders and revenues do not meet our expectations in a particular period, we will be limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in demand for our products in relation to our expectations would have an adverse impact on our operating results. Delays in receiving contractual acceptance may cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue, depending upon the timing and shipment of orders under such contracts. Certain of our service provider contracts include product acceptance provisions which vary depending upon the type of product and individual terms of the contract. In addition, acceptance criteria may be required in other contracts in the future, depending upon the size and complexity of the sale and the type of products ordered. Accordingly, we defer revenue until the underlying acceptance criteria in any given contract have been met. Depending upon the acceptance terms, the timing of the receipt and subsequent shipment of an order may result in acceptance delays, may reduce the predictability of our revenues, and, consequently, may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations in any particular quarter. We face risks related to our dependence on channel partners to sell our products. To avoid confusion by our channel partners regarding our product offerings, we need to devote significant resources to educating and training them. When we take any significant actions regarding our product offerings, or acquire new product offerings, it is important to educate and train our channel partners to avoid any confusion on the desirability of the new product offering in relation to our existing product offerings. For instance, integrating acquired product offerings with ours has created confusion among our channel partners in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We will need to continue to devote significant resources to educate and train our channel partners about our product offerings. Channel confusion could also occur if we do not adequately train or educate the channel on our product families, especially in the cases where we simplify our product offerings by discontinuing one product in order to stimulate growth of a similar product. Ongoing confusion may lead to delays in ordering our products which would negatively affect our revenues. Conflicts and competition with our channel partners and strategic partners could hurt sales of our products. We have various Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) agreements with major telecommunications equipment manufacturers, such as Avaya, Cisco Systems and Nortel Networks, whereby we manufacture our products to work with the equipment of the OEM. These relationships can create conflicts with our other channel partners who directly compete with our OEM partners, or could create conflicts among our OEM partners who 20 Table of Contents compete with each other, which could adversely affect revenues from these other channel partners or our OEM partners. Conflicts among our OEM partners could also make continued partnering with these OEM partners increasingly difficult. Because many of our channel partners also sell equipment that competes with our products, these channel partners could devote more attention to these other products which could harm our business. Channel conflicts could arise which cause channel partners to devote resources to other non-Polycom communications equipment, or to offer new products from our new and existing competitors, which would negatively affect our business or results of operations. Some of our current and future products are directly competitive with the products of our channel and strategic partners. For example, we have an agreement with Cisco Systems under which we ship SoundStation IP conference phones for resale by Cisco Systems. In addition, Cisco Systems sells a network systems product which is in direct competition with our network systems offerings. Also, Cisco Systems has a partnership with Tandberg, one of our major competitors in the video communications business, pursuant to which Tandberg provides Cisco Systems with technology that is co-branded and sold by Cisco Systems. Cisco Systems also recently announced a new high end video conferencing product which is in direct competition with our video conferencing solutions. Hewlett-Packard is also a customer who sells a competitive high end video conferencing product with which we directly compete. As a consequence of conflicts such as these, there is the potential for our channel and strategic partners to compete head-to-head with us and to significantly reduce or eliminate their orders of our products or design our technology out of their products. In addition, competition with our partners in all of the markets in which we operate is likely to increase, potentially resulting in strains on our existing relationships with these companies. As an example, we are now competing in the voice-over-IP handset arena through service providers, which may cause our relationships with our IP PBX strategic partners to erode. Further, our strategic partners may acquire businesses that are competitive with us. Any such strain or acquisition could limit the potential contribution of our strategic relationships to our business, restrict our ability to form strategic relationships with these companies in the future and create additional competitive pressures on us, including downward pressure on our average selling prices, which would result in a decrease in both revenues and gross margins, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a recurrence of global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenues would be negatively affected. While there has been some improvement in technology spending and the global economy, constraints in technology capital spending still exist and if these conditions recur in the future, our business and operating results will continue to be negatively affected. For example, in the first and fourth quarters of 2005, we experienced sequential decreases in absolute dollars in revenues from U.S. government entities. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory, due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenues in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, or product returns may exceed historical or predicted levels, which would harm our business. Moreover, if we choose to eliminate or reduce special cost or stocking incentive programs, quarterly revenues may fail to meet our expectations or be lower than historical levels. Our revenue estimates associated with products stocked by some of our channel partners are based largely on end-user sales reports that our channel partners provide to us on a monthly basis. To date, we believe this data 21 Table of Contents has been generally accurate. To the extent that this sales-out and channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received timely, we may not be able to make revenue estimates for future periods. Changes to our channel partner programs or channel partner contracts may not be favorably received and as a result our channel partner relationships and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our channel partners are eligible to participate in various incentive programs, depending upon their contractual arrangements with us. As part of these arrangements, we have the right to make changes in our programs and launch new programs as business conditions warrant. For example, early in 2005, we announced changes to our co-op marketing programs, which affected how our partners utilize and claim credit for eligible marketing activities. These changes could upset our channel partners to the extent that they could add competitive products to their portfolios, delay advertising or sales of our products, or shift more emphasis to selling our competitors products, if not appropriately handled. There can be no assurance that our channel partners will be receptive to future changes and that we will receive the positive benefits that we are anticipating in making these program changes. Further, we are currently making changes to our channel partner contracts in Asia, and we may elect to make additional changes to our channel partner contracts in Europe and Latin America, which could result in a change in the number and mix of channel partners, a smaller number of channel partners, and the same channel upset we experienced in North America when similar changes were made. Consolidation of our channel partners may result in changes to our overall business relationships and less favorable contractual terms. We have recently seen consolidation among certain of our existing channel partners. In such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity. Further, our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be limited. For instance, the combined entity may be successful in negotiating the most favorable contractual terms out of each of their respective contracts, including terms such as credit and acceptance, which are less favorable than those in our existing contracts with each channel partner. Depending on the extent of these changes, the timing and extent of revenue from these channel partners may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the success of the businesses of our channel partners. Many of our channel partners that carry multiple Polycom products, and from whom we derive significant revenues, are thinly capitalized. Although we perform ongoing evaluations of the creditworthiness of our channel partners, the failure of these businesses to establish and sustain profitability, obtain financing or adequately fund capital expenditures could have a significant negative effect on our future revenue levels and profitability and our ability to collect our receivables. Further, while there has been some improvement in technology spending and the global economy, constraints in technology capital spending still exist and could cause more of our channel partners’ businesses to suffer or fail, which would harm our business. Our channel partner contracts are typically short-term and early termination of these contracts may harm our results of operations. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our channel partners, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our channel partners. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the channel partner. In the event of an early termination by one of our major channel partners, we believe that the end-user customer would likely purchase from another one of our channel partners. If this did not occur and we were unable to rapidly replace that revenue source, its loss would harm our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If revenues from sales to our service provider customers decrease significantly from prior periods, our results of operations may suffer materially. Service providers constitute some of the larger end user customers of our audio network systems products. The revenues in the network systems segment from service providers are subject to more variability than segment revenues from our channel partners and, as of the fourth quarter of 2006, service provider sales have comprised an increasingly smaller percentage of our revenues, as well as decreased in absolute dollars sequentially since the second quarter of 2006 and on a year-over-year basis. The loss of any one of these service provider customers for our network systems products, or our failure to adequately maintain or grow the level of network systems-related product sales to service providers, could have a materially adverse impact on our consolidated revenues. We face risks related to our international operations and sales. Because of our significant operations in Israel, we are subject to risks associated with the military and political environment in Israel and the Middle East region. The principal research and development and manufacturing facilities of our network systems group and many of that group’s suppliers are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region directly affect our network systems group’s operations. A number of armed conflicts have taken place and continue to take place between Israel and its geographic neighbors. As a result, certain of our employees have been called to active military duty, and additional employees may be called to serve in the future. Current and future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may impair our ability to produce and sell our network systems products and could disrupt research or developmental activities. For example, a key supplier’s operations were recently interrupted and had to be relocated during the second quarter of 2006. This instability could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, the military action in Iraq or other countries in the region perceived as a threat by the United States government could result in additional unrest or cause Israel to be attacked, which would adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses and risks inherent in international operations could harm our business. International sales and expenses represent a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses, and we anticipate that international sales will continue to increase and to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future and that international operating expenses will continue to increase. International sales and expenses are subject to certain inherent risks, including the following: • adverse economic conditions in international markets; • potential foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • the near and long-term impact of the military action in Iraq or other hostilities; • disruptions in business due to natural disasters, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases or other events beyond our control; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • adverse economic impact of terrorist attacks and incidents and any military response to those attacks; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. International revenues may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in the future as we introduce new products. These fluctuations are primarily the result of our practice of introducing new products in North 23 Table of Contents America first and the additional time required for product homologation and regulatory approvals of new products in international markets. To the extent we are unable to expand international sales in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Although, to date, a substantial majority of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. currency, we expect that a growing number of sales will be denominated in non-U.S. currencies as more international customers request billing in their currency. For example, effective January 1, 2006, we began invoicing a portion of our European product sales in Euros and our United Kingdom product sales in British Pounds. In addition, some of our competitors currently invoice in foreign currency, which could be a disadvantage to us in those markets where we do not. Our international operating expenses are denominated in foreign currency. As a result of these factors, we expect our business will be significantly more vulnerable to currency fluctuations, which could adversely impact our results of operations. For instance, in 2003 and 2004, and more recently in the second quarter of 2006, our operating costs internationally increased as a result of the weakness in the U.S. dollar. These currency fluctuations were recorded in other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will continue to evaluate whether to, and are likely to decide to, expand the type of products we sell in selected foreign currencies in addition to the Euro and British Pound or may, for specific customer situations, choose to sell our products in foreign currencies, thereby further increasing our foreign exchange risk. While we do not hedge for speculative purposes, as a result of our increased exposure to currency fluctuations, we from time to time engage in currency hedging activities to mitigate currency fluctuation exposure. Also, due to the recent denomination of our European product sales in Euros and of our United Kingdom product sales in British Pounds, we have increased our hedging activity. However, we have limited experience with these hedging activities, and they may not be successful, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, significant adverse changes in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in revenue or profitability in that country, as discounts may be temporarily or permanently affected. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly exposed to adverse changes in general economic conditions which can result in reductions in capital expenditures by end-user customers for our products, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased competition. These factors adversely impacted our operating results in prior years. Any recurrence of these events could have a similar effect. Difficulties we may encounter managing a substantially larger business could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, including the additional sales personnel we plan to hire in 2007. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. In addition, the success of our planned expansion of our sales force is also dependent upon their ability to achieve certain productivity levels in an acceptable timeframe and any inability to do so could be disruptive to our business. From time to time, we may also decide to replace certain key personnel, such as we did recently in Asia by bringing in a new regional sales vice president. We have also recently made changes in certain senior management positions. For example, in April 2006, we hired a new Senior Vice President and General Manager, Network Systems, and in June 2006, we hired a new Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales. Such transitions may be disruptive to the affected function and our business, possibly on a longer term basis than we expected, and could divert management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. Further, we have relied on our ability to grant stock options and other stock awards as a means of recruiting and retaining highly skilled personnel. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock awards, 24 Table of Contents including stock options, will impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly technical and management, as needed, could harm our business. In addition, as we add more complex software product offerings, it will become increasingly important to retain and attract individuals who are skilled in managing and developing these complex software product offerings. Further, many of our key employees in Israel, who are responsible for development of our network systems products, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency conditions. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key technical or management personnel could have an adverse and disruptive impact on their affected function and, consequently, materially harm our business or operations. We have experienced significant growth in our business and operations due to internal expansion and business acquisitions, and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and any future growth, our operating results will be negatively affected. Our business has grown in recent years through both internal expansion and business acquisitions, and continued growth may cause a significant strain on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. In addition, our acquisition of Destiny in January 2007 and our anticipated acquisition of SpectraLink will further strain such resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including information technology and financial operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. Our productivity and the quality of our products may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations, all of which add to the complexity of our organization and increase our operating expenses. We also may be less able to predict and effectively control our operating expenses due to the growth and increasing complexity of our business. In addition, our information technology systems may not grow at a sufficient rate to keep up with the processing and information demands placed on them by a much larger company. The efforts to continue to expand our information technology systems or our inability to do so could harm our business. Further, revenues may not grow at a sufficient rate to absorb the costs associated with a larger overall headcount. Our future growth may require significant additional resources given that, as we increase our business operations in complexity and scale, we may have insufficient management capabilities and internal bandwidth to manage our growth and business effectively. We cannot assure you that resources will be available when we need them or that we will have sufficient capital to fund these potential resource needs. Also, as we assess our resources following our acquisitions, we will likely determine that redundancy in certain areas will require consolidation of these resources. Any organizational disruptions associated with the consolidation process could require further management attention and financial expenditures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, if we experience a shortfall in resources or if we must take additional restructuring charges, our results of operations will be harmed. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions could adversely impact our business. Difficulties in integrating past or future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed a number of acquisitions during our operating history and we recently announced the acquisition of Destiny in January 2007 and our anticipated acquisition of SpectraLink, which is expected to close in the first or second quarter of 2007. The process of integrating acquired companies into our operations requires significant resources and is time consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, to retain key personnel, or to successfully integrate the operations of 25 Table of Contents these companies could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions because of the following significant challenges: • potentially incompatible cultural differences between the two companies; • incorporating the acquired company’s technology and products into our current and future product lines; • potentially creating confusion in the marketplace by ineffectively distinguishing or marketing the product offerings of the newly acquired company with our existing product lines, such as we experienced in China with DSTMedia in 2005; • geographic dispersion of operations; • generating marketing demand for an expanded product line; • distraction of the existing and acquired sales force during the integration of the companies; • the difficulty in leveraging the acquired company’s and our combined technologies and capabilities across all product lines and customer bases; and • our inability to retain previous customers or employees of an acquired company. Further, certain of our acquisition agreements incorporate earn-out provisions in them. Such earn-out provisions entitle the former shareholders of the acquired companies to receive additional consideration upon the satisfaction of certain predetermined criteria. It is possible that disputes over unpaid earn-out amounts may result in litigation to the company, which could be costly and cause management distraction. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources identifying and acquiring businesses. The efficient and effective integration of our acquired businesses into our organization is critical to our growth. Any future acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of the companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additional costs associated with past acquisitions or any future acquisitions we may make. Our failure to implement a restructuring plan related to vacant and redundant facilities could adversely impact our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, as part of acquiring a company, identify redundant facilities, which we would develop a plan to exit as part of the integration of the businesses. For example, we have a remaining liability of approximately $2.0 million at December 31, 2006 related to vacant and redundant facilities in connection with our acquisition of PictureTel, which is net of estimated sublease income we expect to generate. Our estimate of sublease income is based on current comparable rates for leases in the respective markets. If actual sublease income is lower than our estimates for any reason, if it takes us longer than we estimated to sublease these facilities, or if the associated cost of subleasing or terminating our lease obligations for these facilities is greater than we estimated, we would incur additional charges to operations which would harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. For example, we have an approximately 152,000 square foot building which is fully subleased to a third party for the length of our lease obligation. If this tenant were unable to fulfill, for any reason, their contractual obligations under the sublease, we would incur additional charges to operations which would harm our business. In addition, until our vacated and redundant facilities are subleased or the lease obligations for these facilities are terminated, we will continue to pay the contractual lease and facility operating expense obligations without any sublease income to offset these costs. Further, in the event that we agree to sublease a facility or terminate a lease obligation through a lease buyout or other means, we may incur a material cash outflow up to and potentially exceeding our recorded liability at the time of such transaction, which would harm our operating cash flows. To the extent that any such 26 Table of Contents cash outflows or additional costs exceed the amount of our recorded liability related to the sublease or termination of these lease obligations, we could incur a charge to operations which would harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. We have limited supply sources for some key components of our products and for the outside development and manufacture of certain of our products, and our operations could be harmed by supply interruptions, component defects or unavailability of these components or products. Some key components used in our products are currently available from only one source and others are available from only a limited number of sources, including some key integrated circuits and optical elements. Because of such limited sources for component parts, we may have little or no ability to procure these parts on favorable pricing terms. We also obtain certain plastic housings, metal castings, batteries, and other components from suppliers located in China and certain Southeast Asia countries, and any political or economic instability in that region in the future, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or future import restrictions, may cause delays or an inability to obtain these supplies. Further, we have suppliers in Israel and the military action in Iraq or war with other Middle Eastern countries perceived as a threat by the United States government may cause delays or an inability to obtain supplies for our network systems products. We have no raw material supply commitments from our suppliers and generally purchase components on a purchase order basis either directly or through our contract manufacturers. Some of the components included in our products, such as microprocessors and other integrated circuits, have from time to time been subject to limited allocations by suppliers. In addition, companies with limited or uncertain financial resources manufacture some of these components. Further, we do not always have direct control over the supply chain, as many of our component parts are procured for us by our contract manufacturers. In the event that we, or our contract manufacturers, are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of components, develop alternative sources as needed, or companies with limited financial resources go out of business, our operating results could be seriously harmed. Moreover, our operating results would be seriously harmed by receipt of a significant number of defective components or components that fail to fully comply with environmental or other regulatory requirements, an increase in component prices, such as the recent increases for components that are in compliance with the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) rules in Europe, or our inability to obtain lower component prices in response to competitive price reductions. Additionally, our HDX video conferencing products are designed based on integrated circuits produced by Texas Instruments and cameras produced by JVC. Our VSX video conferencing products are designed based on integrated circuits produced by Equator Technologies, a subsidiary of Pixelworks Inc., and cameras produced by Sony. If we could no longer obtain integrated circuits or cameras from these suppliers, we would incur substantial expense and take substantial time in redesigning our products to be compatible with components from other manufacturers, and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in obtaining these components from alternative sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. Additionally, Sony competes with us in the video communications industry, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary components. The failure to obtain adequate supplies of vital components could prevent or delay product shipments, which could harm our business. We also rely on the introduction schedules of some key components in the development or launch of new products. Any delays in the availability of these key components could harm our business. Further, we have strategic relationships with third parties to develop and manufacture certain products for us. The loss of any such strategic relationship due to competitive reasons, our inability to resolve any contractual disputes that may arise between us, the financial instability of a strategic partner, or other factors, could have a negative impact on our ability to produce and sell certain products and product lines and, consequently, may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Finally, the business failure or financial instability of any supplier of these components or product manufacturer could adversely affect our cash flows if we were to expend funds in some manner to ensure the continued supply of those components or products. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints would harm our business. We subcontract the manufacture of our voice and video product lines to Celestica, a third-party contract manufacturer. We use Celestica’s facilities in Thailand, China and Singapore, and should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, terrorist acts, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or economic or political difficulties in any of these countries or Asia or any other reason, such disruption would harm our business and results of operations. Also, Celestica’s facilities are currently the manufacturer for substantially all of these products, and if Celestica experiences an interruption in operations or otherwise suffers from capacity constraints, we would experience a delay in shipping these products which would have an immediate negative impact on our revenues. As a result, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption and harm our reputation. In addition, operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those rights we have, our business would be materially impaired. We rely on third-party license agreements and termination or impairment of these agreements may cause delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments which would harm our business. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software incorporated into our products. For example, we license video communications source code from ADTRAN, Delcom, Mitsubishi, Simtrol, Skelmir, SNMP, and Software House, video algorithm protocols from DSP, UB Video, ATT/LUCENT and Flextronics, Windows software from Microsoft, development source code from Avaya, Hughes Software Systems, Ltd., In Focus Systems Inc., Nokia, Surf, Vocal Technologies Ltd., Windriver, Ingenient and Avistar, audio algorithms from D2, Nortel Networks, Sipro, Telogy and Voiceage, and communication software from Konexx and RADVISION. In addition, certain of our products are developed and manufactured based largely or solely on third-party technology. These third-party software licenses and arrangements may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays or reductions in new product introductions or current product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, licensed and integrated, if at all possible, which would harm our business and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to obtain necessary technology licenses on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, we could be prohibited from marketing our products, could be forced to market products without certain features, or could incur substantial costs to redesign our products, defend legal actions, or pay damages. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Others may independently develop similar proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our intellectual property rights or disclose such technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the U.S. or foreign countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop similar products, duplicate our products or design 28 Table of Contents around our patents. In addition, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, and we could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. We face and might in the future face intellectual property infringement claims and other litigation claims that might be costly to resolve and, if resolved adversely, may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits (patent-related and otherwise) in the normal course of our business. For instance, in November 2005, we initiated a patent infringement lawsuit against Codian, which is still ongoing and in which Codian has asserted certain counterclaims against us. Litigation is often expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Our legal costs may also increase as a result of the fee arrangement we have with outside legal counsel representing us in our litigation against Codian, pursuant to which we may owe additional legal fees if a favorable outcome in the litigation is ultimately achieved. Such fees would be recorded in the period in which a favorable litigation outcome occurs. The results of, and costs associated with, complex litigation matters are difficult to predict, and the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Negative developments with respect to pending lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline, and an unfavorable resolution of any particular lawsuit could have an adverse and possibly material effect on our business and results of operations. We expect that the number and significance of claims and legal proceedings that assert patent infringement claims or other intellectual property rights covering our products will increase as our business expands. In particular, we expect to face an increasing number of patent and copyright claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of video, voice, data and web conferencing products overlap. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. An unfavorable outcome in any such claim or proceeding could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations for the period in which the unfavorable outcome occurs, and potentially in future periods. Further, any settlement announced by us may expose us to further claims against us by third parties seeking monetary or other damages which, even if unsuccessful, would divert management attention from the business and cause us to incur costs, possibly material, to defend such matters. For example, in November 2004, we settled our outstanding patent infringement litigation with Avistar Communications, Inc. (“Avistar”) and Collaboration Properties, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Avistar, and, in connection with such settlement, paid $27.5 million. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. While we were able to assert in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over 29 Table of Contents financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, through 2005, we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings in connection with stock option grants and other stock awards to our employees. However, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which now requires us to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings for employee stock awards. Such charges reduced net income by $16.3 million in 2006 and will continue to negatively impact our future earnings. In addition, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based compensation expense and make such amounts difficult to predict accurately. Changes in tax rates could affect our future results. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. For instance, we previously announced an increase in our expected tax rate in 2006 due to the lapse in the U.S. research and development tax credit, which was subsequently reinstated and resulted in a tax rate adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) also adds more unpredictability and variability to our future effective tax rates. In addition, the adoption of FIN 48 may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. For example, our 2006 effective tax rate increased from 28% to 30% as a result of some of these factors and could further increase in the future. In addition, the Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse affect on the Company’s net income and financial condition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, typhoon or other natural disaster, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war, ongoing Iraqi disturbances, an attack on Israel, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure due to power loss, telecommunications failure, human error, physical or electronic security breaches and computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. We do not have a fully implemented detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables and managing our inventories. Over the past few years, we initiated significant investments in Europe and Asia to expand our business in these regions. In Europe and Asia, as with other international regions, credit terms are typically longer than in the United States. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow as a percentage of our revenues, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years. Although, from time to time, we have been able to largely offset the effects of these influences through additional incentives offered to channel partners at the end of each quarter in the form of prepaid discounts, these additional incentives have lowered our profitability. In addition, the recurrence of economic uncertainty or downturn in technology spending in the United States may restrict the availability of capital which may delay our collections from our channel partners beyond our historical experience or may cause companies to file for bankruptcy, which occurred with Global Crossing, WorldCom and MCSi. Either of these conditions would harm our cash flow and days sales outstanding performance. Although in recent quarters our experience in collecting receivables has been good and we expect this trend to continue, there can be no assurance that it will continue. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) metric is currently ranging from 39 to 46 days. We expect that our DSO metric will continue to be in the 40 to 50 day range; however, our DSO metrics could also increase as a result of increased revenues, as a result of fluctuations in revenue linearity, as a result of future acquisitions, as a result of a greater mix of international sales, or any other factors. In addition, as we manage our business and focus on shorter shipment lead times for certain of our products and implement freight cost reduction programs, our inventory levels may increase, resulting in decreased inventory turns that could negatively impact our cash flow. For example, our inventory turns decreased from 7.7 turns in the fourth quarter of 2004 to 6.0 turns in the fourth quarter of 2006, and this trend may continue in future operating periods. Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has from time to time experienced significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: • statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business, including competitors, partners, suppliers or telecommunications industry leaders or relating to us specifically, as has occurred recently; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • acquisition of one of our competitors by a significantly larger company; • general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; and • domestic and international macroeconomic factors. In addition, the stock market continues to experience price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies like us. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 31 Table of Contents 