Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend. As of June 30, 2014, approximately 80% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers located in Southern California. Adverse economic conditions in Southern California may reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Weak economic conditions and previous strains in the financial and housing markets had resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:▪an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures;▪the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets;▪a decline in demand for our products and services;▪a decline in the value of collateral for loans may in turn reduce customers' borrowing power, and the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and▪a decrease in the amount of our low cost or non interest-bearing deposits.A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.A return of recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a 45significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.At June 30, 2014, $378.0 million, or 48.4% of our loans held for investment, were secured by single-family residential real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values since their high levels in 2006 as a result of the downturn in the California housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Economic weakness and the associated elevated unemployment rates, may result in relatively high loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, a lack of growth and/or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified.Our prior emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk.During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, we originated $1.99 billion and $3.51 billion, respectively, in single-family residential loans. We historically sell the vast majority of the single-family residential loans we originate and purchase and retain the remaining single-family residential loans as held for investment. As a result of our current focus on managing our asset quality, single-family loans originated and purchased for investment were $24.7 million and $11.0 million during these same time periods, virtually all of which conform to or satisfy the requirements for sale in the secondary market.Prior to fiscal 2009, many of the loans we originated for investment consisted of non-traditional single-family residential loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the borrower or property, the loan terms, loan size or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines. In exchange for the additional risk to us associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio was generally required than for a conforming loan. Our non-traditional single-family residential loans include interest-only loans, loans to borrowers who provided limited or no documentation of their income or stated income loans, negative amortization loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment is added to loan principal up to 115% of the original loan amount), more than 30-year amortization loans, and loans to borrowers with a FICO score below 660 (these loans are considered subprime by the OCC). Including these low FICO score loans, as of June 30, 2014, our single-family residential borrowers had a weighted average FICO score of 733 at the time of loan origination. As of June 30, 2014, these non-traditional loans totaled $271.3 million, comprising 72.0% of total single-family residential loans held for investment and 34.8% of total loans held for investment. At that date, interest-only loans totaled $169.6 million, stated income loans totaled $176.5 million, negative amortization loans totaled $3.7 million, more than 30-year amortization loans totaled $15.6 million, and low FICO score loans totaled $13.2 million (the outstanding balances described may overlap more than one category). In the case of interest-only loans, a borrower's monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status. Of the $169.6 million of interest-only loans, $2.1 million begin to fully amortize within one year and $167.5 million begin to fully amortize after one to five years. Since the borrower's monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to afford the increased monthly payment at the time of conversion. Additionally, lower prevailing prices for residential real estate may make it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes to pay off their mortgages and tightened underwriting standards may make it difficult for borrowers to refinance their loan prior to the time of conversion to fully-amortizing status. At June 30, 2014, $5.4 million of our interest-only single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent. In the case of stated income loans, a borrower may misrepresent his income or source of income (which we have not verified) to obtain the loan. The borrower may not have sufficient income to qualify for the loan amount and may not be able to make the monthly loan payment. At June 30, 2014, $8.4 million of our stated income single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent.In the case of more than 30-year amortization loans, the term of the loan requires many more monthly payments from the borrower (ultimately increasing the cost of the home) and subjects the loan to more interest rate cycles, economic cycles and employment cycles, which increases the possibility that the borrower is negatively impacted by one of these cycles and is no longer willing or 46able to meet his or her monthly payment obligations. At June 30, 2014, $237,000 of our more than 30-year amortization single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. Negative amortization is only permitted up to a specified level and the payment on such loans is subject to increased payments when the level is reached, adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents and potentially resulting in higher payments from the borrower. The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments. Also, real estate values may decline and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their mortgages to pay off their mortgage obligation. As of June 30, 2014, the Bank had $3.7 million of single-family loans which permitted negative amortization as compared to $5.1 million of single-family loans at June 30, 2013. High loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a concurrent second mortgage for a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100% or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our multi-family and commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by residential and non-residential properties. At June 30, 2014, we had $398.0 million or 51.0% of total loans held for investment in multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by single-family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as single-family residential real estate. In addition, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. In addition, as of June 30, 2014, the Bank had $19.6 million in negative amortization multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment may be added to the loan principal) as compared to $28.3 million at June 30, 2013. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to the Bank because the credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the property serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. If we foreclose on a multi-family or commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for a single-family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on multi-family and commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our single-family residential or consumer loan portfolios.Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during previous years, before declining recently, and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 we recorded a recovery from the allowance for loan losses of $3.4 million and $1.5 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.8 million and $5.0 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Improved conditions in the general economy and our markets have been a significant contributing 47factor to decreased levels of loan delinquencies and non-performing assets during the past four fiscal years. Single-family residential loans and properties represented 59.2% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2014. At June 30, 2014, our total non-performing assets had decreased to $18.4 million compared to $24.0 million at June 30, 2013 and $40.0 million at June 30, 2012. Our allowance for loan losses was $9.7 million, or 1.25% of gross loans held for investment and 55.73% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2014. Further, our single-family residential loan portfolio, which comprised 48.4% of our total loan portfolio at June 30, 2014, is concentrated in non-traditional single-family loans, which include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated income loans and low FICO score loans, all of which have a higher risk of default and loss than conforming residential mortgage loans. For additional information, see “Our prior emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk” above. If general economic conditions decline, we will likely experience elevated delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may experience continuing variation in our operating results. We reported net income of $6.6 million, $25.8 million and $10.8 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Several factors affecting our business can cause significant variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of our loan originations and sales, the differences between our costs of funds and the average interest rates of originated or purchased loans, our inability to complete significant loan sale transactions in a particular quarter and problems generally affecting the mortgage loan industry can result in significant increases or decreases in our revenues from quarter to quarter. A delay in closing a particular loan sale transaction during a quarter or year could postpone recognition of the gain on sale of loans. If we were unable to sell a sufficient number of loans at a premium in a particular reporting period, our revenues for such period would decline, resulting in lower net income and possibly a net loss for such period, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:▪cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;▪the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; ▪the duration of the loan; ▪the character and credit worthiness of a particular borrower; and ▪changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:▪our collectively evaluated allowance, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management's expectations of future events; and▪our individually evaluated allowance, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and the underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, losses, and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision 48for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital.If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.At June 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans and real estate owned (“REO”) were $18.4 million, $24.0 million and $40.0 million, respectively, or 1.7%, 2.0% and 3.2% of total assets, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: ▪we record interest income only on a cash basis for non-accrual loans except for non-performing loans under the cost recovery method where interest is applied to the principal of the loan as a recovery of the charge-offs and we do not record interest income for REO; ▪we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses;▪non-interest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our REO portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) on non-performing investment securities;▪there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our REO; and▪the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also had $343,000 in performing restructured loans at June 30, 2014.New rules issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) may have a negative impact on our residential loan origination process and foreclosure proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.The CFPB issued a rule effective in January 2014 to implement the “qualified mortgage” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring that mortgage lenders consider consumers’ ability to repay home loans before extending them credit. This new rule describes certain minimum requirements for lenders making so-called “ability-to-repay” determinations, but does not dictate that they follow particular underwriting models. Loans that meet the terms of the “qualified mortgage” provisions under the rule will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Loans that do not meet the ability-to-repay standard can be challenged in court by borrowers who default and the absence of ability-to-repay status can be used against a lender in foreclosure proceedings. The CFPB’s rule on “qualified mortgages” could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. In addition, any loans that we make outside of the “qualified mortgage” criteria could expose us to an increased risk of liability and reduce or delay our ability to foreclose on the underlying property. It is difficult to predict how the CFPB’s “qualified mortgage” rule will impact us, but any decreases in loan origination volume or increases in compliance and foreclosure costs caused by the rule could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. See - “We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.”If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property is taken in as REO and at certain other times during the REO holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 49In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by governmental sponsored entities (“GSE”) or our ability to qualify for such programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family residential loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors on a servicing released basis. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for single-family residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. We believe our ability to retain mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. Any breach of representations and warranties made by us to our loan purchasers or credit default on our loan sales may require us to repurchase or substitute such loans we have sold. We engage in bulk loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us to the loan purchaser. Any misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process or, in some cases, upon any fraud or early payment default on such mortgage loans, may require us to repurchase or substitute loans. Any claims asserted against us in the future by one of our loan purchasers may result in liabilities or legal expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Bank repurchased $437,000, $1.4 million and $1.6 million of single-family loans, respectively. However, many additional repurchase requests were settled during the periods, that did not result in the repurchase of the loan itself. Aggregate payments of $666,000, $5.6 million and $439,000 were made for loans repurchase settlements in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The loan repurchase settlement in fiscal 2013 was due primarily to a global settlement with the Bank’s largest legacy loan investor, which eliminated all past, current and future repurchase claims from this particular investor.Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings. We employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our loans held for sale, originated interest rate locks and our mortgage servicing asset. Our hedging activity varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into other mortgage-backed derivatives. There are, however, no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Moreover, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not materialize. Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things:▪available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; ▪the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;▪the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;▪the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;50▪the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value; and▪downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders' equity. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term time deposits and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest. At June 30, 2014, we had $173.5 million in time deposits that mature within one year and $527.0 million in interest-bearing checking, savings and money market accounts. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, a substantial majority of our single family residential mortgage loans have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment.Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last five years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. How long the Federal Reserve will maintain low interest rates is unknown. So long as a low interest rate environment is maintained, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “Risk Factors - Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.”Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the California markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are also strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB's underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. In addition, the need to replace funds in the event of large-scale withdrawals of brokered deposits could require us to pay significantly higher interest rates on retail deposits or other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and net income. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.51The Bank is currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the OCC and as a savings and loan holding company the Corporation is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense.The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators but are subject to the rules of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.In January of 2013, the CFPB issued several final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws. These final rules, most of the provisions of which (including the qualified mortgage rule) become effective January 10, 2014, generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer’s ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years. Compliance with these rules will likely increase our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies and bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions, and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets.It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs, which could adversely affect key operating efficiency ratios, and could increase our interest expense.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.As discussed under “Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-K, effective January 1, 2015, we will be subject to new capital requirements under regulations adopted by the federal banking regulators to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These new requirements establish the following minimum capital ratios: (1) a 52common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, there is a new requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, in an amount greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets over the minimum capital required by each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on the organization's ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in, beginning January 1, 2016, requiring during 2016 a buffer amount greater than 0.625% in order to avoid these limitations, and increasing the amount each year until beginning January 1, 2019, the buffer amount must be greater than 2.5% in order to avoid the limitation.The new regulations also change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting these various capital requirements, as well as the risk-weight of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios.Under the new regulations, in order to be considered well-capitalized for prompt corrective action purposes, the Bank will be required to maintain the following ratios: (1) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5% (new) of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.0% (increased from 6.0%) of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of a least 10.0% (unchanged) of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of at least 5.0% (unchanged).We have conducted a proforma analysis of these new requirements as of June 30, 2014. We have determined that if these requirements were in effect on that date, the Bank would be considered well-capitalized and the Corporation and the Bank each would have a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5% above the minimum risk-based capital requirements.The application of these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Currently, we believe our capital resources satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.53Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank's business. In the current economic environment, the Bank's involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank's ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank's results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank's loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims.Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have also experienced an increase in losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems.We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and borrowers' inability to repay loans. Since our geographic concentration is in Southern California, we are subject to earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. A major earthquake or other natural disaster may disrupt our business operations for an indefinite period of time and could result in material losses, although we have not experienced any losses in the past six years as a result of earthquake damage or other natural disaster. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to our own property, a substantial number of our borrowers would likely incur property damage to the collateral securing their loans. Although we are in an earthquake prone area, we and other lenders in the market area may not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan. Additionally, if the collateralized properties are only damaged and not destroyed to the point of total insurable loss, borrowers may suffer sustained job interruption or job loss, which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.Our assets as of June 30, 2014 include a deferred tax asset, the full value of which we may not be able to realize. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At June 30, 2014, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $5.6 million, an increase from a balance of approximately $4.4 million at June 30, 2013. The net deferred tax asset results primarily from our provisions for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which were in the past significantly larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting proposes. As a result of our follow-on stock offering in December 2009, we may experience an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain 54“5% shareholders” over a rolling three-year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward period of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at June 30, 2014 is fully realizable based on our expected future earnings; however, we will not know the impact of the recent ownership change until we complete our fiscal 2014 tax return. Based on our preliminary analysis of the actual impact of the “ownership change” on our deferred tax assets, we believe that the impact on our deferred tax asset is unlikely to be material. This is a preliminary and complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. As a result, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.