ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our past experience may not be indicative of future performance, and as noted elsewhere in this report, we have included forward-looking statements about our business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections “Description of Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list of the risks we face; some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that we currently perceive as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. Real Estate Loan Concentrations – Approximately 76% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate collateral, including 34% concentrated in construction, land development and land loans and 28% concentrated in commercial real estate loans. In 2007, the banking industry faced significant economic challenges as a result of the subprime mortgage fallout. Over the last several years, subprime mortgage loans (loans offered to borrowers with weakened credit histories) contributed to residential real estate growth. Due to growing concerns about the underlying quality of these loans, funding for these loans rapidly dissipated during 2007. The resulting slowdown in residential real estate markets has led to lower demand for real estate construction and development loans. In some instances, the slowdown has stressed our borrowers’ ability to perform on loans. If these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses may increase and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Adequacy of Loan Loss Allowance – We have established a reserve for probable losses we expect in connection with loans in our loan portfolio. This allowance reflects our estimates of the collectibility of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. Our determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although we apply criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance is inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Growth Management – Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage our branch expansion and potential future acquisitions. We expend significant resources to open new branches including construction of branch buildings or commitments on leased property and hiring of new employees to staff the branch as well as new administrative employees to support branch operations. Growth through acquisition of other banks is subject to other risks such as our inability to effectively integrate the other bank’s branches, customers and employees into our operational structure and company culture. Overall, expansion of our branch network and any potential future acquisitions may present operating and other problems that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have achieved in the past. 15 Table of Contents Changes in Market Interest Rates – Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest spread. Based on our current volume and mix of interest bearing liabilities and interest earning assets, net interest spread could generally be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although we believe the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity – We are subject to the risk of daily volatility in our liquidity. Liquidity measures our ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Dramatic fluctuations in deposit balances make it difficult to manage liquidity. A sharp reduction in deposits could force us to borrow heavily in the wholesale liability market. In addition, rapid loan growth during periods of little or no liquidity may force us to decline loans, utilize wholesale liabilities or raise deposit interest rates. Wholesale liabilities include all funding sources obtained outside the retail branch network and consist of borrowings from correspondent banks, advances from Federal Home Loan Bank and out-of-market deposits. Because interest rates on wholesale liabilities generally exceed interest rates on retail deposits, our results of operations may be adversely affected by an increase in wholesale liabilities. Geographic Concentration – Substantially all of our business is derived from a twelve–county area in northern and central Oregon and southern and central Washington. The communities we serve typically have population bases of 20,000 to 250,000, and have traditionally created employment opportunities in the areas of agriculture, timber, electrical power generation, light manufacturing, construction and transportation. While we have built our expansion strategy around these growing and diverse geographic markets, our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions we serve, may have a more pronounced effect upon our business than they might on an institution that is more broadly diverse in geographic concentration. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. Regulation – We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, borrowers and shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes. Changes in laws and regulations may affect our cost of doing business, limit our permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or our competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions and change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. 16 Table of Contents Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. Overall, the effect of laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We pay income taxes based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, and estimates of future tax rates. We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our effective tax rate or that taxing authorities will not change tax legislation, challenge filing positions, or assess taxes, penalties, and interest charges. Nasdaq Listing Qualifications— Under applicable Nasdaq rules, a company listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market must obtain shareholder approval prior to entry into an equity compensation arrangement with its officer and/or directors. We inadvertently issued equity compensation in excess of the number of shares authorized under the Columbia Bancorp 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended in 2002. We notified Nasdaq of this violation and Nasdaq has made a preliminary indication that it will not delist our securities from the Nasdaq Global Select Market at this time, but instead will be issuing a letter of reprimand to Columbia. As a condition to this letter of reprimand, our officers and directors have conditionally waived their right to vested and unvested restricted stock and waived their right to exercise options granted in excess of those approved under the Plan pending a favorable vote of Columbia’s shareholders at the annual meeting to be held on April 24, 2008 to increase the number of shares subject to our equity compensation plan, including ratification of the excess issuances. No definitive determination has been made by Nasdaq at this time. Were we to fail in any material respect to comply with this or other Nasdaq rules in the future, Nasdaq may impose more negative sanctions against us, including trading halts and delisting procedures with respect to our common stock. A delisting from Nasdaq, if it were to occur, could materially impair the liquidity of our securities and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Competition – Competition may adversely affect our performance. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally based on the efficiency and quality of our service and also based on pricing of interest rates and loan fees. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. Credit Risk – A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Loans with variable interest rates comprise approximately 85% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007. If interest rates increase, variable rate loan payments will increase and our borrowers may have difficulty making payments as they come due. This increase in credit risk may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We had no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 17 Table of Contents 