Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our IndustryOur operations are concentrated in the MPL insurance industry, and our profitability may be adversely affected by current “soft market” conditions and any negative developments and cyclical changes in that industry.Substantially all of our revenues are generated from sales within the MPL insurance industry. Because of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the business or economic, competitive or legal environments or regulatory conditions affecting the MPL insurance industry, broadly or in our markets, could have a negative effect on our profitability and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to more diversified companies. The MPL insurance industry historically is cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of significant price competition and excess underwriting capacity (a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (a hard market). We are currently operating under soft market conditions, with significant competition and pressure on premium rates following several years of overall favorable claims trends. During 2006 through 2009, premium rates declined in our core Florida market, primarily as a result of improved claims results and premium rates remained relatively level in 2010. We cannot predict how market conditions will continue to change, or the manner in which, or the extent to which, any such changes may adversely impact our business or profitability. We anticipate, however, that the current soft market conditions will continue at least through 2011.We operate in a competitive environment, and our success depends upon our ability to retain existing business and to develop new business.We compete with specialty insurers and in some cases, alternative risk arrangements, whose activities are limited to regional and local markets, as well as other large national property and casualty insurance companies that write MPL insurance. Our competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources and higher financial strength ratings than we have, organizations particularly mutual insurers, reciprocals, risk retention groups or trusts, that may have lower return on capital objectives than we have, and start-up companies aggressively seeking market share. We also face competition from other insurance companies for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers, on whose services we depend in marketing our insurance products. Increased competition and other factors could adversely affect our ability to attract new business and to retain existing business at adequate prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to price our products accordingly.The nature of the insurance business is such that pricing must be determined before the underlying costs are fully known. This requires significant reliance on estimates and assumptions in setting prices. If we fail to assess accurately the risks that we assume, we may fail to charge adequate premium rates, which could impact our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to assess our policyholder risks and to price our products accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to:____________Form 10-K: 10FPIC Insurance Group, Inc.Annual Report on Form 10-K• Competition from other providers of MPL insurance;• Price regulation by insurance regulatory authorities;• Selection and implementation of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies;• Availability of sufficient reliable data;• Uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions generally;• Adverse changes in claim results;• Incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data;• Our ability to predict policyholder retention, investment yields and the duration of our liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses (“LAE”) accurately; and• Unanticipated effects of court decisions, legislation, or regulation, including those related to tort and healthcare reform.These risks and uncertainties could cause us to underprice our policies, which would negatively affect our results of operations, or to overprice our policies, which could reduce our competitiveness. Either such event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our results and financial condition may be affected by our failure to establish adequate loss and LAE reserves or by reductions in favorable development of prior year reserves.Our liability for losses and LAE (also referred to as our loss and LAE reserves) is our largest liability and represents the financial statement item most sensitive to estimation and judgment. In developing our estimates of losses and LAE, we evaluate and consider actuarial projection techniques based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, historical loss experience data and estimates of anticipated trends. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments, changes in operations and anticipated trends, constitutes an appropriate basis for predicting future events. While we believe that our loss and LAE reserves are appropriate, to the extent that such reserves prove to be inadequate or excessive in the future, we would adjust them and incur a charge or credit to earnings, as the case may be, in the period the reserves are adjusted. Any such adjustment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our results in recent years have benefited from the recognition of favorable development of prior year reserves but there can be no assurance that such favorable development will continue in the future. Since our loss and LAE reserves represent our largest financial statement item subject to estimation and judgment, there can be no assurance that our estimates will not change in the future. For additional information on our loss and LAE reserves, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Our exposure to claims for extra-contractual obligations and losses in excess of policy limits and the unpredictability of court decisions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Within the Florida market for MPL insurance in particular, the magnitude of payments for extra-contractual liability and losses in excess of policy limits (commonly referred to as “bad faith” exposures) has increased in recent years and is expected to continue to be a significant source of uncertainty. Our policy to aggressively defend claims made against our insureds that we consider unwarranted or claims where reasonable settlement cannot be achieved, and the unpredictability of court decisions, may increase such exposure. An award for extra-contractual liability or a significant award or jury verdict, or a series of awards or verdicts, against one or more of our insureds could ultimately result in the payment by us of potentially significant amounts in excess of the related policy limits, reserves and reinsurance coverage and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Significant changes in the healthcare delivery system, through healthcare reform or otherwise, could materially affect our operations. Healthcare reform or other significant changes could alter the healthcare delivery system, raise the cost sensitivity of our insureds, or alter how healthcare providers insure their MPL risks. Federal healthcare reform legislation has been enacted but is the subject of legal challenges. Accordingly, we cannot predict the ultimate terms of this legislation or future reform proposals, including possible federal medical malpractice reform proposals, or what effect this legislation or such proposals may have on our business. In addition, significant market-driven changes in the healthcare system have resulted in many medical professionals joining or becoming contractually affiliated with hospitals and other larger organizations. This trend may result in a significant decrease in the role of the physician in the MPL insurance purchasing decision and in a significant increase in the role of professional risk managers, who may be more price-____________Form 10-K: 11FPIC Insurance Group, Inc.Annual Report on Form 10-Ksensitive and who may favor insurance companies that are larger and more highly rated than we are. Also, larger healthcare organizations tend to retain more risk than independent professionals and are more likely to self-insure. For these reasons, consolidation in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our business.We are heavily regulated by the states in which we operate and are subject to legislative initiatives, regulatory oversight and, indirectly, to pressure from consumer groups and representatives (including the statutorily appointed Florida Insurance Consumer Advocate) and others, that may affect the adequacy of our premium rates; and we may be limited in the way in which we operate.We are subject to extensive regulation by the insurance regulatory agency in each state in which we operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of the policyholders and may or may not be beneficial to shareholders. In addition to restricting the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made by our insurance subsidiaries, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to, among other things:• Premium rates charged to insurance customers;• Permitted investments and prescribed statutory accounting practices;• Trade practices;• Licensing requirements; and• Minimum capital and surplus requirements.Regulation may mandate undesired premium rate changes or may impede or impose burdensome conditions on premium rate changes or other actions that we may otherwise intend to take in order to maintain or enhance our operating results. Our premium rates are also subject to legislative action, regulatory oversight and, indirectly, to pressure from consumer groups and representatives (including the statutorily appointed Florida Insurance Consumer Advocate) and others. In recent years, the Florida OIR has sought to minimize premium rates in property and casualty insurance generally, including in the MPL insurance line based on its assessment of improved claims trends. The impact of any future adverse legislative, regulatory or other such actions on our premium rates or the way in which we operate, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Judicial and legislative review of tort reforms could negatively affect our operations.Tort reforms are generally intended to restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by imposing one or more limitations, including, limiting types of claims that may be heard in court, limiting the amount or types of damages, shortening the period of time to make a claim, and limiting venue or court selection. Certain states in which we do business have enacted tort reforms, including Florida and Texas, which have enacted significant MPL insurance reforms since 2003. The constitutionality of certain Florida tort reforms, related to caps on non-economic damages, is currently being challenged in at least two Florida court cases. These two cases involve the issue of whether this cap can or cannot be applied to so-called “straddle cases” in which the alleged injury occurred prior to the effective date of the cap but a claim against the medical provider concerning the alleged injury is commenced after the effective date of the cap. The appellate court in one case upheld the retroactive application of the cap, but the appellate court in the other case ruled to the contrary. These cases are currently on appeal to the Florida Supreme Court. There can be no assurance that tort reform measures will ultimately be upheld by Florida courts or in any other state where challenged. In addition, we anticipate that trial lawyer and other groups will continue legislative lobbying efforts to weaken or overturn existing tort reforms and to block further reforms.We are subject to assessment by state insurance guaranty associations.State insurance guaranty associations or other insurance regulatory bodies may assess us, generally on the basis of insurance written in their states, for the purposes of funding the unpaid claims and policyholder benefits of insolvent insurers or to cover catastrophes in their states. Between 2006 and 2009, we were assessed an aggregate of $14.8 million by the Florida OIR at the request of the Florida Insurance Guaranty Association ("FIGA") with respect to the insolvency of property and casualty insurance companies operating in Florida. No assessments were made in 2010. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional assessments with respect to insolvencies and such additional assessments could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Florida law, our insurance subsidiaries are entitled to recoup insurance guaranty fund assessments from their Florida policyholders and will continue to do so until fully recovered.____________Form 10-K: 12FPIC Insurance Group, Inc.Annual Report on Form 10-KRisks Related to Our CompanyOur geographic concentration means that our performance may be affected by economic, regulatory and demographic conditions of states in which we operate.Our business is affected by general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, which in turn may be affected by national general economic conditions. Because our business is concentrated in a limited number of markets, particularly Florida and Texas, adverse developments that are limited to a geographic area in which we do business may have a disproportionately greater affect on us than they would have if we were less geographically concentrated. Our revenues and financial results may fluctuate with interest rates, investment results and developments in the securities markets.The fair value of our investment holdings is affected by general economic conditions and changes in the financial and credit markets and we rely on the investment income produced by our investment portfolio to contribute to our profitability. Changes in interest rates and credit quality may result in fluctuations in the income derived from, the valuation of, and in the case of declines in credit quality, payment defaults on, our fixed-income securities. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions could impact the value of our equity securities. Such conditions could give rise to significant realized and unrealized investment losses or the impairment of securities deemed other-than-temporary. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our investment portfolio is also subject to credit and cash flow risk, including risks associated with our investments in asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of our consolidated assets and a multiple of our shareholders' equity, adverse changes in economic conditions could result in other-than-temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets or specific changes to industries, companies or municipalities in which we maintain investment holdings. During 2010 and 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges of $0.9 million and $2.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio included gross unrealized investment gains of $27.6 million and gross unrealized investment losses of $2.2 million.The trading price of our shares may be volatile.There tends to be significant volatility in the market for equity securities generally. The trading price of our shares may not remain at or exceed current levels. The following factors, in addition to those described in other risk factors, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our shares: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results, including per share results, of operations; • the level of our share repurchases and the effect of such repurchases on our per share financial data; • changes in market valuations of companies in the property casualty and MPL insurance industries; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes; • our relatively small market capitalization and the relatively low trading volume of our shares; and• announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Our status as an insurance holding company with no direct operations could adversely affect our ability to fund operations, conduct future share repurchases, or meet our debt obligations. We are an insurance holding company. The primary source of funds available to us for the payment of operating expenses, share repurchases and debt-related amounts are management fees and dividends from our insurance subsidiaries. The payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance laws. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant levels of risk related to policies underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. If we were unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we were ____________Form 10-K: 13FPIC Insurance Group, Inc.Annual Report on Form 10-Kunwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures we may have to limit the amount of risks we write.We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay us in a timely fashion, if at all. In addition, we remain primarily liable to our insureds, whether our reinsurers pay or not, and therefore could experience losses.We transfer a portion of the risk we have assumed under our insurance policies to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent of the risk transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. If our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow would be adversely affected.Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition or results of operations.As part of our growth strategy, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire other MPL insurers or blocks of MPL business. Acquisitions that we may make or implement in the future entail a number of risks that could materially adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • Problems integrating the acquired operations with our existing business;• Operating and underwriting results of the acquired operations not meeting our expectations;• Diversion of management's time and attention from our existing business;• Need for financial resources above our planned investment levels;• Difficulties in retaining business relationships with agents and policyholders of the acquired company;• Risks associated with entering markets in which we lack extensive prior experience;• Tax issues associated with acquisitions;• Acquisition-related disputes, including disputes over contingent consideration and escrows;• Potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and• Potential impairment of related goodwill and intangible assets.Our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired.As a result of purchase accounting for our business combination transactions, our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010 contained goodwill and intangible assets of $27.2 million. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment in the value of our goodwill or intangible assets. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill or intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key employees.Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our senior management and other key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or any other key employee, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating, it may be more difficult for us to write new business or renew our existing business.Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Financial strength ratings, in particular the rating of A.M. Best, are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade or withdrawal of such a rating could adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies and inhibit us from competing effectively. In addition, in the competitive market for our insurance products, competitors with higher financial strength ratings might have a competitive advantage over us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - None ____________Form 10-K: 14FPIC Insurance Group, Inc.Annual Report on Form 10-K