Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are factors that could affect our future performance: Our revenues are unpredictable because many of our facilities operate without long-term power purchase agreements, and our revenues and results of operations depend on market and competitive forces that are beyond our control. We sell capacity, energy and ancillary services from many of our generating facilities into competitive power markets or on a short-term fixed price basis through power sales agreements. We are not guaranteed recovery of our costs or any return on our capital investments through mandated rates. The market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond our control, including the balance of supply and demand, the marginal and long run costs incurred by our competitors and the impact of market regulation. The price for which we can sell our output may fluctuate on a day-to-day basis. The markets in which we compete remain subject to one or more forms of regulation that limit our ability to raise prices during periods of shortage to the degree that would occur in a fully deregulated market, limiting our ability to recover costs and an adequate return on our investment. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: · the failure of market regulators to develop efficient mechanisms to compensate merchant generators for the value of providing capacity needed to meet demand; · actions by regulators, ISOs, RTOs and other bodies that may prevent capacity and energy prices from rising to the level sufficient for recovery of our costs, our investment and an adequate return on our investment; · the ability of wholesale purchasers of power to make timely payment for energy or capacity, which may be adversely impacted by factors such as retail rate caps, refusal by regulators to allow utilities to fully recover their wholesale power costs and investments through rates, catastrophic losses and losses from investments in unregulated businesses; · the fact that increases in prevailing market prices for fuel oil, coal, natural gas and emissions allowances may not be reflected in increased prices we receive for sales of energy; · increases in supplies due to actions of our current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generating facilities that may be able to produce electricity less expensively than our generating facilities, and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach our markets; · the competitive advantages of certain competitors including continued operation of older power plants in strategic locations after recovery of historic capital costs from ratepayers; · existing or future regulation of our markets by the FERC, ISOs and RTOs, including any price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the price volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; · regulatory policies of state agencies which affect the willingness of our customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for capacity in particular; · weather conditions that depress demand or increase the supply of hydro power; and · changes in the rate of growth in electricity usage as a result of such factors as regional economic conditions and implementation of conservation programs. 34 In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric energy can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced at the time of use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to substantial price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Changes in commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results by increasing the cost of producing power or lowering the price at which we are able to sell our power, and we may be unsuccessful at managing this risk. Our generation business is subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, which may impact our financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power and decreasing the amounts we receive from the sale of power. In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs may differ from our expectations. Mirant Energy Trading engages in asset hedging activities related to sales of electricity and purchases of fuel. The income and losses from these activities are recorded as generation revenues and fuel costs. Mirant Energy Trading may use forward contracts and derivative financial instruments to manage market risk and exposure to volatility in electricity, coal, natural gas, emissions and oil prices. We cannot provide assurance that these strategies will be successful in managing our price risks, or that they will not result in net losses to us as a result of future volatility in electricity and fuel markets. Many factors influence commodity prices, including weather, market liquidity, transmission and transportation inefficiencies, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, demand for energy commodities, natural gas, crude oil and coal production, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, and federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Additionally, we expect to have an open position in the market, within our established guidelines, resulting from the management of our portfolio. To the extent open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact financial results and financial position, either favorably or unfavorably. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict the impact that risk management decisions may have on our businesses, operating results or financial position. Although management devotes a considerable amount of attention to these issues, their outcome is uncertain. We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and volatility and interruption in fuel supply because our facilities generally do not have long-term agreements for natural gas, coal and oil fuel supply. Although we attempt to purchase fuel based on our known fuel requirements, we still face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility. Our cost of fuel may not reflect changes in energy and fuel prices in part because we must pre-purchase inventories of coal and oil for reliability and dispatch requirements, and thus the price of fuel may have been determined at an earlier date than the price of energy generated from it. The price we can obtain from the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel costs. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The volatility of fuel prices could adversely affect our financial results and operations. Some of our generation facilities depend on only one or a few customers or suppliers. These parties, as well as other parties with whom we have contracts, may fail to perform their obligations, or may terminate their existing agreements, which may result in a default on project debt or a loss in revenues and may require us to institute legal proceedings to enforce the relevant agreements. Several of our power production facilities depend on a single customer or a few customers to purchase most or all of the facility’s output or on a single supplier or a few suppliers to provide fuel, water and other services required for the operation of the facility. The sale and procurement agreements for these facilities 35 may also provide support for any project debt used to finance the related facilities. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to the facility could have a material adverse effect on such facility’s financial results. The financial performance of these facilities is dependent on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under their long-term agreements. Our facilities in the Philippines are exposed to significant risks as a result of their reliance on their contracts with NPC, which purchases almost all of the power generated by those facilities. These risks include political instability, changes in governmental leadership, regulation of the electricity business and the credit quality of the Philippine government. If NPC were to fail to perform its obligations under its energy conversion agreements with us, the resulting loss of cash flow and revenue would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue received by our subsidiaries may be reduced upon the expiration or termination of existing power sales agreements. Some of the electricity we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term power sales agreements that expire at various times. When the terms of each of these power sales agreements expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of electricity may be reduced significantly, which would substantially reduce our revenue. Operation of our generation facilities involves risks that may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. The operation of our generation facilities involves various operating risks, including, but not limited to: · the output and efficiency levels at which those generation facilities perform; · interruptions in fuel supply; · disruptions in the delivery of electricity; · adverse zoning; · breakdowns or equipment failures (whether due to age or otherwise); · restrictions on emissions; · violations of our permit requirements or changes in the terms of or revocation of permits; · releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; · shortages of equipment or spare parts; · labor disputes; · operator errors; · curtailment of operations due to transmission constraints; · failures in the electricity transmission system which may cause large energy blackouts; · implementation of unproven technologies in connection with environmental improvements; and · catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar occurrences. A decrease in, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our facilities or an increase in the costs of operating such facilities could materially impact our cash flows and results of operations, including cash flows available to us to make payments on our debt or our other obligations. 36 For example, on December 16, 2005, one of the generating units at our Chalk Point facility experienced a forced outage as a result of a structural failure in one of its retired-in-place precipitators. The failure caused damage to associated ductwork. The Chalk Point facility resumed normal operations on January 17, 2006. On September 18, 2005, Unit No. 1 at the Morgantown facility experienced a forced outage in response to high turbine vibration resulting from the failure of one low pressure turbine blade. This failure required the unit to be shut down. The unit returned to service on November 18, 2005. The accounting for our asset hedging and proprietary trading activities may increase the volatility of our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in asset hedging activities in order to economically hedge our exposure to market risk with respect to (1) electricity sales from our generation facilities, (2) fuel utilized by those facilities and (3) emissions allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price physical and financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. We also use derivative contracts with respect to our limited proprietary trading activities, through which we attempt to achieve incremental returns by transacting where we have specific market expertise. The derivatives from our asset hedging and proprietary trading activities are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” (“SFAS No. 133”). These derivatives are not designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133 and changes in their fair value are therefore recognized currently in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, our financial results—including gross margin, operating income and balance sheet ratios—will, at times, be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily due to changes in electricity and fuel prices. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we were required to mark-to-market contracts resulting in a $17 million charge as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, when we were required to mark-to-market contracts resulting in a $148 million gain. For a more detailed discussion of the accounting treatment of our asset hedging and proprietary trading activities, see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, included herein. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: · seasonal variations in demand and corresponding energy and fuel prices; and · variations in levels of production. We compete to sell energy and capacity in the wholesale power markets against some competitors that enjoy competitive advantages, including the ability to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms and a lower cost of capital. Regulated utilities in the wholesale markets generally enjoy a lower cost of capital than we do and often are able to recover fixed costs through regulated retail rates including, in many cases, the costs of generation, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation facilities without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. The competitive advantages of such participants could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse impact on the revenues generated by our facilities. Operating in foreign countries involves a number of risks. Our operations and earnings in the Philippines and Caribbean have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degrees by political instability and by other political developments 37 and laws and regulations which may affect both operations and financial affairs, such as forced divestiture of assets or required public offerings of equity interests in those assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of company facilities; price controls; tax increases and retroactive tax claims; expropriation of property; cancellation of contract rights; currency fluctuations and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon the Company vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements, including future changes to them. Our business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities, which, among other things, restricts the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and soil, and also governs the use of water from adjacent waterways. Such laws and regulations frequently require us to obtain operating permits and remain in continuous compliance with the conditions established by those operating permits. To comply with these legal requirements and the terms of our operating permits, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emissions allowances. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability and the imposition of liens or fines. In addition, we may be required to shut down facilities if we are unable to comply with the requirements, such as with CO2 regulations for which there currently is not a technical compliance solution, or if we determine the expenditures required to comply are uneconomic. For example, we currently intend to retire our Lovett generation facility in New York, in part because of substantial environmental capital expenditure requirements, starting with Unit 5 in 2007 and Units 3 and 4 in 2008. We are pursuing alternatives that would make it economically feasible for this generation facility to remain in operation, but there can be no assurances that we will be successful. Furthermore, we had planned to shut down, at least temporarily, the Kendall facility from January 2006 through December 2007, with the possibility of restarting operations in January 2008. However, the ISO-NE determined that a small part of the capacity of the Kendall facility is needed for reliability and negotiated an RMR arrangement for the facility. We may mothball the Kendall facility following the expiration of the RMR arrangement if it is not economically feasible to continue to operate the facility. In addition, environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharge and cooling water intake structures, are generally becoming more stringent, which may require us to make expensive facility upgrades or restrict our operations to meet more stringent standards. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, and more extensive permitting requirements, we expect our environmental expenditures to be substantial in the future. Although we have budgeted for significant expenditures to comply with these requirements, actual expenditures may be greater than budgeted amounts. We may have underestimated the cost of the environmental work we are planning or the air emissions allowances we anticipate buying. In addition, new environmental laws may be enacted, new or revised regulations under those laws may be issued, the interpretation of such laws and regulations by regulatory authorities may change, or additional information concerning the way in which such requirements apply to us may be identified. For example, in November 2005, Maryland’s governor announced that he intends to propose a Maryland Clean Power Rule that would require deep reductions in NOx emissions by 2009 and in SO2 and mercury emissions by 2010 at six Maryland coal fired power facilities, including our Chalk Point, Dickerson and Morgantown facilities. If the rulemaking proceeds according to the timing indicated by the Governor’s office, that rule would become law in the summer of 2006. Although we have not fully evaluated the impacts of the Governor’s proposed rule as announced, if adopted as proposed, it would require us to increase substantially our capital expenditure requirements from 2006 through 2010 in a way that could materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to recover incremental capital costs of compliance with new environmental regulations, which may adversely affect our financial performance and condition. 38 From time to time we may not be able to obtain necessary environmental regulatory approvals. Such approvals could be delayed or subject to onerous conditions. If there is a delay in obtaining any environmental regulatory approvals or if onerous conditions are imposed, the operation of our generation facilities or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. Such delays or onerous conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and comparable state laws, impose strict and, in many circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of contamination in soil, groundwater and elsewhere. Some of our facilities have areas with known soil and/or groundwater contamination. Releases of hazardous substances at our generation facilities, or at locations where we dispose of (or in the past disposed of) hazardous substances and other waste, could require us to spend significant sums to remediate contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. The discovery of significant contamination at our generation facilities, at disposal sites we currently utilize or have formerly utilized, or at other locations for which we may be liable, or the failure or inability of parties contractually responsible to us for contamination to respond when claims or obligations regarding such contamination arise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. The expected decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations of certain of our generation facilities may negatively impact our cash flows. We expect that certain of our generation facilities and related properties will become subject to decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations that may require material expenditures. The exact amount and timing of such expenditures, if any, is not presently known. Furthermore, laws and regulations may change to impose material additional decommissioning and remediation obligations on us in the future. If we are required to make material expenditures to decommission or remediate one or more of our facilities, such obligations will impact our cash flows and may adversely impact our ability to make payments on our obligations. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.7 billion. In addition, the present value of lease payments under the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases is approximately $1 billion (assuming a 10% discount rate) and the termination value of the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases is $1.4 billion. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: (1) it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; (2) a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; (3) the debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; (4) certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; (5) it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt; and (6) we may be more vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out capital expenditures that are important to our long-term growth or necessary to comply with environmental regulations. 39 We may be unable to generate sufficient liquidity to service our debt and to post required amounts of cash collateral necessary to effectively hedge market risks. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt depends on our future operating performance. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance. There can be no assurance that the terms of our debt will allow these alternative measures, that the financial markets will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. We seek to manage the risks associated with the volatility in the price at which we sell power produced by our generation facilities and in the prices of fuel, emissions credits and other inputs required to produce such power by entering into hedging transactions. These asset hedging activities generally require us to post a significant amount of collateral either in the form of cash or letters of credit. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $987 million of posted cash collateral and $58 million of letters of credit outstanding primarily to support our asset hedging activities and debt service reserve requirements. While we seek to structure transactions in a way that reduces our potential liquidity needs for collateral, we may be unable to execute our hedging strategy successfully if we are unable to post the amount of collateral required to enter into and support hedging contracts. In our efforts to hedge commodity price risk, we are an active participant in energy exchange and clearing markets. These markets require a per contract initial margin to be posted, regardless of the credit quality of the participant. The initial margins are determined by the exchanges through the use of proprietary models that rely on a variety of inputs and factors, including market conditions. We have limited notice of any changes to the margin rates. Consequently, we are exposed to changes in the per unit margin rates required by the exchanges and could be required to post additional collateral on short notice. If our facilities experience unplanned outages, we may be required to procure replacement power in the open market to satisfy contractual commitments. Without adequate liquidity to post margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses and may miss significant opportunities, and we may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets. Our business is subject to complex government regulations. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities. Such cost impacts, in turn, may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Generally, in the United States, we are subject to regulation by the FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and rates, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, the FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. Even where market-based rate authority has been granted, the FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires such potential market power to be mitigated. In addition to direct regulation by the FERC, most of our assets are subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power 40 and to ensure market functions. Such actions may materially impact our ability to sell and the price we receive for our energy and capacity. Changes in the markets in which we compete may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. For example, in the fall of 2004, PJM completed its integration of AEP, Duquesne Light and DP&L into PJM. Under PJM rules, AEP, Duquesne Light and DP&L were then deemed by PJM to be capable of providing capacity to all areas of PJM. This has depressed the prices that can be charged for capacity in PJM. Certain of our assets are located in the ERCOT market. Such assets are not generally subject to regulation by the FERC, but are subject to similar types of regulation by the PUCT. To conduct our business, we must obtain licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities. These licenses, permits and approvals can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities. If we cannot comply with all applicable regulations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. On August 8, 2005, the EPAct 2005 was enacted. Among other things, the EPAct 2005 provides incentives for various forms of electric generation technologies, which will subsidize our competitors. Many regulations that could be issued pursuant to the EPAct 2005 may have an adverse impact on our business. In 2003, the Northeastern United States and parts of Canada suffered a massive blackout allegedly stemming from transmission problems originating in Ohio. In part as a result of this, the EPAct 2005 requires the FERC to select an industry self-regulatory organization which will impose mandatory reliability rules and standards. We cannot predict the impact of this on us. We cannot predict whether the federal or state legislatures will adopt legislation relating to the restructuring of the energy industry. There are proposals in many jurisdictions both to advance and to roll back the movement toward competitive markets for supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail level. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could impact our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could suffer. We cannot provide assurance that the introductions of new laws, or other future regulatory developments, will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. We may be liable for certain unfunded liabilities with respect to pension plans offered by Mirant and its affiliates. We and our affiliates offer pension benefits to employees through various pension plans. Funding obligations under the U.S. pension plans are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and some of the plans are underfunded. As of December 31, 2005, our U.S. pension plans had an unfunded accumulated benefit obligation of approximately $90 million, and an unfunded projected benefit obligation of approximately $149 million, in aggregate as calculated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 132R (‘‘FASB 132R’’), “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits.” As of December 31, 2005, our non-U.S. pension plans were overfunded on an accumulated benefit obligation basis by approximately $68 million, and on a projected benefit obligation basis by approximately $51 million, in the aggregate, as calculated in accordance with FASB 132R. Unless the unfunded liabilities are eliminated through asset returns, rising interest rates or other gains exceeding plan assumptions, we and our affiliates will have to satisfy the underfunded amounts of these plans through cash contributions over time. The timing and amounts of funding requirements depend upon a number of factors, including interest rates, asset returns, potential changes in pension legislation, our decision to make voluntary prepayments, applications for and receipt of waivers to reschedule contributions and changes to pension plan benefits. 41 Changes in technology may significantly impact our generation business by making our generation facilities less competitive. A basic premise of our generation business is that generating power at central facilities achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a low price. There are other technologies that can produce electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of electricity production to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electric production, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, future war or risk of war may adversely impact our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. As power generators, we face heightened risk of an act of terrorism, either a direct act against one of our generation facilities or an inability to operate as a result of systemic damage resulting from an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that we use to transport our power. If such an attack were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, such an attack could impact our ability to service our indebtedness, our ability to raise capital and our future growth opportunities. Our operations are subject to hazards customary to the power generation industry. We may not have adequate insurance to cover all of these hazards. Our operations are subject to many hazards associated with the power generation industry, which may expose us to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations. These hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate, but we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. The subsidiaries that own our generation facilities in New York, including our Lovett and Bowline facilities, have not emerged from Chapter 11. Our Lovett and Bowline generation facilities in New York are subject to disputes with local tax authorities regarding property tax assessments and with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (“NYDEC”) regarding environmental controls. We are also in discussions with the NYISO and utilities regarding an agreement that would compensate Mirant Lovett for its contribution to the reliability of the New York electric power system. The facilities are forecasted to have negative operating cash flows at their current tax valuations. Until a settlement is reached on property taxes, environmental controls and reliability that would permit economically feasible operation, our subsidiaries that own the facilities, Mirant Lovett and Mirant Bowline, LLC (“Mirant Bowline”), will remain in Chapter 11. The Lovett and Bowline facilities are currently in negotiations on all of these issues. Although negotiations are continuing, resolutions may not be reached in the near future or not at all. Until resolutions are reached 42 and the companies emerge from bankruptcy, we will not have access to the cash from operations generated from these subsidiaries. Mirant NY-Gen, which includes hydroelectric facilities at Swinging Bridge, Rio and Mongaup, and small combustion turbine facilities at Hillburn and Shoemaker, is insolvent. Its expenses are being funded under a debtor-in-possession facility made by Mirant Americas Inc. (“Mirant Americas”), with the approval of and under the supervision of the Bankruptcy Court. Mirant NY-Gen is currently discussing with the FERC appropriate remediation for a sinkhole discovered in May 2005 in the dam at the Swinging Bridge facility. We also conducted a flood study to determine downstream consequences if the maximum capacities of the reservoirs were exceeded at our New York Swinging Bridge, Rio and Mongaup generation facilities, which may cause the FERC to request that Mirant NY-Gen remediate those dams as well. Mirant NY-Gen has initiated discussions with the FERC for surrendering its permits to operate all the hydro electric facilities at Swinging Bridge, Rio and Mongaup, and expects to begin that formal process soon. It is not possible at this point to determine the cost of remediating the dam and surrendering the permits, but such costs may be substantial. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the bankruptcy cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business frequently subjects us to litigation. Substantially all of the material claims against us that arose prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing were resolved during our Chapter 11 proceedings. In addition, the Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation and certain debts arising afterwards. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to our bankruptcy filing and before confirmation of the Plan are (1) subject to compromise and/or treatment under the Plan or (2) discharged, in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and terms of the Plan. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to our bankruptcy filing were not discharged primarily relate to certain actions by governmental units under police power authority, where we have agreed to preserve a claimant’s claims, as well as, potentially, instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the bankruptcy filing. The ultimate resolution of such claims and other obligations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. We cannot be certain that the bankruptcy proceeding will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Although we emerged from bankruptcy upon consummation of the Plan, we cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations going forward, including our ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, hedging counterparties and others and to attract and retain customers. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and retain customers could adversely affect our financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 