ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider (1) all of the information set forth in this 10-K report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis included in Exhibit 13, (2) information in our other filings with the SEC, including any future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and (3) the risks described below. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known or which we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations, and even the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we do not currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which the pricing of our products is substantially dependent on market forces, and we may not be able to pass on all of our increased costs to our customers. We primarily sell to retailers and wholesalers. In North America, these customers generally seek annual or multi-year contracts with suppliers that can provide a wide range of fresh produce. Continuing industry consolidation and other factors have increased the buying leverage of the major grocery retailers, both in the United States and in Europe. Average prices paid by our retail customers for bananas in North America declined by approximately 1.5% per year in the decade ending 2004, when we began to achieve higher year-on-year prices through negotiated contract price increases and/or surcharges to cover higher fuel and other industry costs. Although we have been able to achieve higher pricing in our fixed price contracts in recent years, industry costs have continued to rise substantially, and we have not consistently been able, and may be unable in the future, to pass on cost increases to our customers. Bidding for contracts or arrangements with retailers, particularly large chain stores and other large customers, is highly competitive. Due to this competitive pressure, our responses to requests for proposals may not be sufficient to retain existing business or to obtain new business. Most of our fixed priced contracts are in the United States. Fixed price contracts can be disadvantageous because we may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases when they arise and we may not be able to take advantage of short-term, market-driven price increases that may occur due to short supply or other factors. Where we do not have fixed price contracts, the selling price received for each type of produce depends on several factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In Europe, bananas are sold on the 12 Table of Contents basis of weekly price quotes, which fluctuate significantly due to supply conditions, seasonal trends, competitive dynamics and other factors. Excess industry supply of any produce item is unpredictable and may result in increased price competition. Produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must typically be brought to market promptly in order to maximize recovery. The value-added salad industry also may be sensitive to national and regional economic conditions, and the demand for our products has been adversely affected from time to time by economic downturns. Based on retail scan data, industry and our Fresh Express value-added salad unit volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008 were down 4 percent. In the Salads and Healthy Snacks segment, approximately one-fourth of revenues in each of 2008 and 2007 was derived from quick-service restaurants and other foodservice customers, which are characterized by a high volume of sales and profit margins that are lower than for retail customers. In our salads business, we declined to bid on certain foodservice contracts in 2008 that we believed would be unprofitable or have a very low margin, and as a result, our foodservice volume declined 25 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008. Foodservice volume may be as much as 50 percent lower for the full year 2009, although we expect to migrate the use of that production capacity toward retail and healthy snacking products. From time to time, our large retail customers may impose upon their suppliers, including us, new or revised requirements, which could increase our costs. These business demands may relate to food safety, inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we fail to meet customer demands, we could lose customers, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the current global economic downturn, consumers’ purchasing habits are changing, as they seek value pricing; this may affect sales volume and profitability on some of our products and we cannot predict the extent or duration of these changes. As a result of the current global economic downturn, consumers have become more careful in their purchases, which may affect sales and pricing of some of our products. For example, in Europe, where our bananas are sold as a premium brand, there may be some movement of consumers to purchase “value” or unbranded bananas. This may affect the volume and price at which we can sell premium bananas in Europe. In the North American salad business, several socio-economic changes appear to be occurring simultaneously: (1) some consumers are making fewer trips per month to the grocery store which can adversely impact the sales of highly perishable goods, (2) some consumers appear to be shifting their purchasing habits to lower cost products within the value-added salads category, (3) some consumers are moving from branded packaged salads to private label and (4) some consumers are increasing their purchases of packaged salads (perhaps due to fewer meals in restaurants). By the same token, there may be pressure on pricing and volume of some of our other value-added products, such as Just Fruit in a Bottle, which may extend the time until they become profitable. There can be no assurance whether or when consumer confidence will return or that these trends will not increase. Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel, paper, plastics and resins, could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of the fresh produce that we market is purchased from independent producers and importers around the globe under arrangements ranging from formal long-term purchase contracts to informal market trading with unrelated suppliers. In 2008, approximately two-thirds of the bananas and all of the lettuce and other produce we sourced were purchased from independent growers. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental regulations such as exit prices for bananas (which are set by the government in several banana exporting countries), agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit and vegetables have 13 Table of Contents negatively impacted our operating results in the past, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. Our purchased fruit costs for 2009 are expected to increase over 2008, even though some of the inputs to these costs (such as fertilizer and fuel) have decreased. The price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations, including fuel used in chartered ships, is an important variable component of transportation costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially since 2003, and, although fuel prices decreased in the second half of 2008, there can be no assurance that there will not be further increases in the future. Any reductions in fuel-related costs in 2009 will be partly offset by fuel hedging results, which, at current forward rates, would generate losses in 2009 versus a gain in 2008. In addition, fuel and transportation cost is a significant component of much of the produce that we purchase from growers and distributors, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to pass on to our customers future increases in fuel-related costs incurred in these respects. Paper and fertilizer costs are significant for the production and packaging of bananas. Bananas and most other produce items are packed in cardboard boxes for shipment. If the price of paper or fertilizer increases, or the price of the fresh produce that we purchase increases, we may not be able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers. The impact of the current global economic downturn may have other impacts which cannot be fully predicted. The full impact of the current global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to Chiquita that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a bank, insurance company, supplier, customer or other financial partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressure in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors which could have wide ranging impacts on the future of the industry. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Our results of operations have been significantly impacted by a variety of weather-related events in the past. Lettuce, bananas and other produce can be affected by drought, temperature extremes, hurricanes, windstorms and floods; floods in particular may affect bananas, which are typically grown in tropical lowland areas. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of agricultural production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. In the past, crop diseases have caused certain produce industries to replant entire areas and to change plant varieties, all at considerable costs in both capital investment and temporary lack of available supply. Unfavorable growing conditions caused by these factors can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost. These factors may result in lower sales volume and, in the case of farms we own or manage, increased costs due to expenditures for additional agricultural techniques or agrichemicals, the repair of infrastructure, and the replanting of damaged or destroyed crops. If banana plantings are destroyed, approximately nine months are required from replanting to first harvest. In the event lettuce crops are damaged, the next harvest on the same acreage would be delayed at least 90 days. 14 Table of Contents Incremental costs also may be incurred if we need to find alternate short-term supplies of bananas, lettuce or other produce from other growers; such alternative supplies may not be available, or may not be available in sufficient quantities or on favorable economic terms, and we may be required to bear additional transportation costs to meet our obligations to customers. Competitors may be affected differently by these factors. For example, floods, hurricanes and tropical storms may impact industry participants differently based on the location of their production. For example, as a result of flooding which affected some of our owned farms in Costa Rica and Panama in December 2008, we incurred approximately $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 and we expect to incur approximately $30 million of higher costs in 2009 related to the cost of rehabilitating the farms as well as procuring replacement fruit from other sources and the related incremental logistics costs. If adverse conditions are widespread in the industry, they may restrict supplies and lead to an increase in spot market prices for the produce. This increase in spot market prices, however, may not impact customers that have fixed contract prices. Our geographic diversity in banana production and sourcing locations increases the risk that we could be exposed to weather or crop-related events that may impact our operations at any given time, but lessens the risk that any single event would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Although we maintain insurance to cover certain weather-related losses and we attempt to pass on some of the incremental costs to customers through contract price increases or temporary price surcharges, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, as well as losses on hedging positions for fuel, may adversely impact our financial results. Our operations involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily involve the euro, and costs denominated in foreign currencies primarily involve several Latin American currencies and the euro. Accordingly, our operating results may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Approximately 40% of our total sales were in Europe in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006. Should the euro weaken against the U.S. dollar, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any unfavorable currency movement with an increase in our euro pricing for bananas and other fresh produce. Our inability to do so could have a substantial negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. We reduce currency exchange risk from sales originating in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by exchanging local currencies for dollars promptly upon receipt. We further reduce our currency exposure for these sales by purchasing hedging instruments (principally euro put option contracts) to hedge the dollar value of our estimated net euro cash flow exposure up to 18 months into the future. These put option contracts allow us to exchange a certain amount of euros for U.S. dollars at either the exchange rate in the option contract or the spot rate. At February 13, 2009, we had hedging coverage for approximately three-fourths of our expected net euro cash flow exposure for 2009 and approximately one-third of our expected net exposure for 2010 at average rates of $1.39 per euro. At December 31, 2008, we had $26 million of unrealized potential gains on our currency hedges, of which $16 million is expected to be reclassified to net income during 2009. The costs of our shipping operations are exposed to the risk of rising fuel prices. Although we sold our twelve ships in June 2007, we are still responsible for purchasing fuel for these ships, which are chartered back under long-term leases. To reduce the risk of rising fuel prices, we enter into bunker fuel forward contracts that allow us to lock-in fuel prices up to three years in the future. Bunker fuel forward contracts can offset increases in market fuel prices or can result in higher costs from declines in market fuel prices. At February 13, 2009, we had hedging coverage for approximately three-fourths of our expected fuel purchases through 2011 at average bunker fuel swap rates of $353, $481 and $439 per metric ton in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2008, we had $77 million of unrealized potential losses on our bunker fuel forward contracts, of which $24 million is expected to be reclassified to net income in 2009. 15 Table of Contents The personnel transition in connection with relocation of our European headquarters to Switzerland and other restructuring activities may have negative operating impacts. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we committed to a plan to relocate our European headquarters from Antwerp, Belgium to Rolle, Switzerland. We expect to recognize approximately $12-16 million one-time costs related to this relocation in 2009. Approximately 100 positions in Antwerp were affected, many of which have been, or are still in the process of being, filled with employees who will not relocate from Antwerp. The relocation, which began in December 2008 and is expected to be completed in 2009, does not affect employees in sales offices, ports and other field offices throughout Europe. However, for the corporate and staff groups in which significant numbers of employees are being replaced, there may be interruptions and inefficiencies as new employees gain experience in their new roles and familiarize themselves with business processes and operating requirements. There can be no assurance that there will not be adverse effects on operating results in Europe as a result. Our high level of indebtedness and the financial covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy or to react to changes in our business, and we may be limited in our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. As of December 31, 2008, our indebtedness was approximately $777 million (including approximately $193 million of subsidiary debt) and as of the date of this filing, we had borrowed an addition $20 million under our subsidiary’s revolving credit facility for normal seasonal working capital needs. We have no debt maturities of more than $20 million in any year prior to 2014. Our high level of indebtedness limits our ability to borrow additional funds and requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures. This, in turn (1) increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; (2) limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or our industry; (3) limits our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments, introduce new products or services, or exploit business opportunities; and (4) places us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. We have a revolving credit facility under which $129 million was available as of December 31, 2008, and $109 million is available as of the date of this filing. There can be no assurance that, even under a committed facility, all of the lenders will be able to meet their lending commitments or, if any lender defaulted, that the remaining lenders would lend incremental amounts or that alternative lenders could be substituted. Moreover, most of our indebtedness is issued under debt agreements that require continuing compliance with financial maintenance and other covenants. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments and we were unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or if we had a change of control, the holders of the affected debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 16 Table of Contents Future acquisitions, investments, innovations and strategic alliances may be costly and not achieve their intended goals, and they could distract our management, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. Our ability to execute successfully through innovation, new products, acquisitions and geographic expansion will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, it may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business or otherwise achieve our financial or strategic objectives. The following risks, in particular, may be applicable: Risks relating to acquisitions and investments: • Suitable acquisitions or investments may not be found or completed on terms that are satisfactory to us; • We may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired company’s personnel, assets, management systems and technology; and • The benefits expected to be derived from an acquisition may not materialize and could be affected by numerous factors, such as regulatory developments, industry events, general economic conditions, increased competition and the loss of existing key personnel or customers. Risks relating to innovation: In the area of innovation, we must be able to develop new products and enhance existing products that appeal to consumers and customers. This depends, in part, on the technological and creative skills of our personnel and on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in both proprietary technology and our brands. We may not be successful in the development, introduction, marketing and sourcing of any new products, and we may not be able to develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs, achieve market acceptance or generate satisfactory financial returns. Risks relating to joint ventures and strategic alliances: We currently operate parts of our business, most notably our banana production and sales operations for markets in Japan and parts of the Middle East, through joint ventures with other companies, and we may enter into additional joint ventures and strategic alliances in the future. Joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us. For example, we may not control the joint ventures; joint venture partners may not agree to distributions that we believe are appropriate; joint venture partners may not observe their commitments; joint venture partners may have different interests than us and may take actions contrary to our interests; and it may be difficult for us to exit a joint venture if an impasse arises or if we desire to sell our interest. Our international operations subject us to numerous risks, including U.S. and foreign governmental investigations and claims. We have international operations in countries throughout the world, including in Central America, Europe, China, the Philippines and parts of Africa. These activities are subject to risks inherent in operating in those countries, including government regulation, currency restrictions and other restraints, burdensome taxes, risks of expropriation, threats to employees, political instability, terrorist activities, including extortion, and risks of U.S. and foreign governmental regulation and action in relation to these operations. Under certain circumstances, we (i) might need to curtail, cease or alter our activities in a particular region or country, (ii) might not be able to establish or expand operations in certain countries, and (iii) might be subject to fines or other penalties. Our ability to deal with these issues may be affected by U.S. or other applicable law. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Exhibit 13, and “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for a description of, among other things, (i) a $25 million financial sanction contained in a plea agreement between us and the U.S. Department of 17 Table of Contents Justice relating to payments made by our former banana-producing subsidiary in Colombia to a paramilitary group in that country which had been designated under U.S. law as a foreign terrorist organization, (ii) additional litigation and investigations relating to the Colombian payments, (iii) an investigation by EU competition authorities relating to prior information sharing in Europe and (iv) customs proceedings in Italy. In connection with the plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, we agreed that, during a five-year probationary period, we would not commit any federal, state or local crimes. Accordingly, the commission of any illegal acts in the future could also give rise to liabilities under the plea agreement. Regardless of the outcomes, we will incur legal and other fees to defend ourselves in all of these proceedings, which in aggregate may have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Reliance on third-party shipping providers, future increases in charter rates, and an extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could materially affect our operating results. We ship our bananas and some of our other fresh produce in ships chartered through an alliance formed by Eastwind Maritime Inc. and NYKLauritzenCool AB, as well as other third parties. We may not continue to achieve the level of service we are seeking through the alliance, which was formed in 2007 when we sold our shipping fleet. There can be no assurance that the alliance will partner creatively with us 18 Table of Contents in the future as our business and logistics needs evolve. Although most of our shipping needs are provided under long-term charters with negotiated fixed rates, ship charter rates have been increasing in recent years, and may increase further in the future. When we ship on a short-term basis we must pay market charter rates for those ships. From time to time, we have experienced interruptions in our shipping, for reasons such as mechanical breakdown or damage to a ship, strikes at ports, port damage and weather-related disruptions. Terrorist activities could also lead to damage to ports, ships or shipping routes. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption, an extended interruption in our ability to ship and distribute our products could have a material adverse effect on us. Labor issues can increase our costs or disrupt our operations; pressure to increase union representation could adversely affect our operations and changes in immigration laws could impact the availability of produce purchased from third-party suppliers. Most of our employees working in Central America are covered by labor contracts. One of these contracts, covering 4,100 employees, is currently expired and under negotiation. Several more contracts, covering 3,000 employees, will expire during 2009 and/or are currently under negotiation. Under applicable laws, employees are required to continue working under the terms of the expired contract. Approximately half of our Fresh Express employees, all of whom work in the United States, are covered by labor contracts and none of these contracts expire prior to December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate these contracts on commercially reasonable terms. We are exposed to the risks of strikes or other labor-related actions in both our owned operations and those of independent growers or service providers supplying us. Such strikes or other labor-related actions sometimes occur upon expiration of labor contracts or during the term of the contracts for other reasons. Labor stoppages and strikes have in the past and may in the future result in increased costs and, in the case of agricultural workers, decreased crop quality. When prolonged strikes or other labor actions occur in agricultural production, growing crops may be significantly damaged or rendered un-harvestable as a result of the disruption of irrigation, disease and pest control and other agricultural practices. In addition, our non-union workforce, particularly at Fresh Express in the United States, has been subject to union organization efforts from time to time, and we could be subject to future unionization efforts. The new U.S. federal administration has, as one of its priorities, legislation that would make it significantly easier for unions to organize workers. While we respect freedom of association, increased unionization of our workforce could increase our operating costs and/or constrain our operating flexibility. Our Fresh Express subsidiary purchases lettuce and other salad ingredients from many third parties that grow these products in the United States. The personnel engaged for harvesting operations typically include significant numbers of immigrants who are authorized to work in the U.S. The availability and number of these workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in U.S. immigration laws. If these laws changed, the scarcity of available personnel to harvest agricultural products purchased by Fresh Express in the U.S. could increase our costs for those products or could lead to product shortages. Our operations and products are regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations and products are subject to inspections by environmental, food safety, health and customs authorities and to numerous governmental regulations, including those relating to the use and disposal of agrichemicals, the documentation of food shipments and the traceability of food products. As these regulations continue to be revised and new laws enacted, they generally become more 19 Table of Contents stringent and the compliance cost increases. We believe we are substantially in compliance with applicable regulations. However, actions by regulators in the past have required, and in the future may require, operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. In addition, if violations occur, regulators can impose fines, penalties and other sanctions. The costs of these modifications, improvements, fines and penalties could be substantial. We could be adversely affected by actions of regulators or if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, even if our practices and procedures are not implicated. As a result, we may also elect or be required to incur additional costs aimed at increasing consumer confidence in the safety of our products. For example, industry concerns regarding the safety of fresh spinach in the United States adversely impacted our Salads and Healthy Snacks operations starting in the third quarter of 2006 and throughout 2007, even though our products were not implicated in these issues. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims; claims or other events or rumors relating to the “Chiquita” or “Fresh Express” brands could significantly impact our business. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. While we believe we have implemented practices and procedures in our operations to promote high-quality and safe food products, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. In addition to bananas and value-added salads, our healthy snacking and bottled juice products and our fresh juice bars subject us to risks relating to food safety and product liability. Although we maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be adequate, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others or they might exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. In addition, large retail customers often require us to indemnify them for claims made by consumers who have purchased our products, regardless of whether the claim arises from our handling of the product. Consumer and institutional recognition of the “Chiquita” and “Fresh Express” trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high-quality and safe food products, as well as responsible business practices, are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events, rumors or negative publicity regarding the quality and safety of our food products or our business practices, even if baseless, may adversely affect the value of our brand names and the demand for our products. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet; a substantial impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $760 million of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks on our balance sheet, the value of which depend on a variety of factors, including the success of our business and earnings growth. Accounting standards require us to review goodwill and trademarks at least annually for impairment, and more frequently, if impairment is indicated. We recorded a $375 million ($374 million after-tax) impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 relating to goodwill at Fresh Express. There can be no assurance that future reviews of our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets will not result in additional impairment charges. Although it does not affect cash flow or our compliance under the company’s current credit facility, an impairment charge does have the effect of decreasing our earnings and shareholders’ equity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 