D. Risk Factors Within the context of our global operations, we are naturally subject to various risks, which are intrinsically linked with our entrepreneurial activities. In order to be able to specifically deal with these risks, we utilize suitable instruments for identification, analysis and action in our risk management system and evolve these instruments in our individual departments. We have defined the areas of risk management within our individual departments and put in place the necessary procedures, early warning and monitoring systems. We take the defined risk factors into consideration in our annual budgeting process and our multiple-year strategic planning. The planning processes are accompanied by comments from the planning and supervising bodies. Moreover, the strategic planning, budget and current business position are comprehensively deliberated with our Supervisory Board. Our Supervisory Board receives detailed monthly overviews of the Company’s financial results, as well as reports from the Management Board that could be of particular importance with respect to profitability or liquidity. General Economic Conditions A substantial portion of our sales is generated in Europe and the United States. As a result, an economic weakness or a decline in growth in these markets can have a negative impact on our profitability. A substantial slow-down or decline in demand for our products could have serious effects on our economic and financial positions. In addition, the strong competition that prevails in our market poses the risk of loss of market share and name recognition. In order to limit these market risks, we constantly analyze the environment and the competitive situation. We relativize negative economic changes through measures aimed at adjusting capacities and cost reduction. Ongoing contact with our customers and the market intimacy that this brings with it supplies us with important information about the needs of our customers. We utilize the information about technology needs that we gain from the marketplace to enhance our competitive position and name recognition. Industry and Business Technological Changes and Introduction of New Products The vacuum industry is characterized by ongoing technological change, as well as by enhancements and new developments to its products. A substantial portion of our economic success is dependent upon our ability to continue to market enhanced or new products on a timely basis and at competitive prices. A failure to preserve our technological lead and manufacture adequate new products in the event of substantial technological change or the superiority of a competitor’s product could significantly adversely affect our profitability and cash flows and our strategic expansion plans. In fiscal 2006, we spent a total of € 7.3 million on research and development, to combat the risk of technology losses and to maintain our high standards of quality. Strict quality controls reduce the risk of quality shortcomings. Highly Competitive Industry We are one of the leading full-line suppliers of vacuum technology and we operate in a highly competitive market. Significant factors that affect competition include product performance, applications support, post-sales service and training, a network of sales and service organizations, pricing and product availability, as well as brand name recognition. Certain of our competitors have greater resources and a broader product line. There can be no absolute assurance that we will be able to continue to increase or maintain our market share or that stronger competition might not have a negative effect on our business operations, financial condition and profitability. Manufacturing Facility All of our manufacturing activities take place in the facility located at our Headquarters in Asslar, Germany. Any extended interruption or impairment of our production capabilities at the Asslar facility would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain a business interruption insurance to insure us against stoppage primarily due to natural disasters, such as thunderstorm and flood. 11 Table of Contents Procurement Risk The procurement market includes the risk of delivery bottlenecks and dependence upon single suppliers. We continuously examine alternative suppliers and prefer reliable vendors. We attempt to lessen the risk of a reduced supply of raw materials including steel and aluminum with long-term framework contracts. Rising demand in the worldwide commodities markets for raw materials that we use in our production process has led to price increases in such materials. Continued high prices or further price increases for raw materials and increased pressure on our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability. We may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or suppliers. Human Resources Management Risk As a high-tech manufacturer, we are dependent upon the high level of training and education of our qualified employees. Losing a major portion of our key personnel could lead to serious problems in the factory. Information Technology Risk Risks may arise from malfunctions of our hardware or software and from computer crimes, such as hacker or virus attacks aligned with loss of data or system outages. We keep the risk of data losses to a minimum by performing daily backups of our complete enterprise data. Our enterprise database, in particular, with which our manufacturing operations, materials management, order handling, financial and cost accounting are handled, is subject to a high security standard. All files created by our employees within the server environment are also backed up on a daily basis. Our backup copies are stored in secure, fireproof locations. The activities of our in-house support team reduce system outages to a low level. The Company uses regularly updated virus scanners and modern firewalls to protect its hardware and software against the risk of computer viruses and hacking. International Operations and Legal Risk As in the case of all internationally operating enterprises, we are subject to risks with respect to regional economic conditions, differing taxation and legislation, unexpected changes in national regulatory requirements, compliance with import and export conditions, as well as foreign legislation. Furthermore, we have to observe, among other things, foreign import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates, which can involve material risks. The professional expertise required for assessing the Company’s day-to-day business is provided by our qualified staff. To further minimize risk, we draw upon the assistance of external legal and tax advisors in connection with complex questions and/or out-of-the-ordinary occurrences. No legal disputes are currently pending whose outcome could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation. Financial Financial and Liquidity Risk In what continues to be a tense overall economic situation, financial risks result from the insolvency of customers, in particular. Generally, liquidity risks are the result of the inability to satisfy payment obligations in a timely fashion. We reduce creditworthiness risks, and thus accounts receivable losses, with the aid of a rigorous system of accounts receivable management and by monitoring our customers’ payment patterns. Moreover, our dependence upon individual customers is very limited, as no end customer accounts for more than 5% of our total sales. To steer liquidity, a cash management system is in place between our German companies, which assures the companies a sufficient supply of cash. Overall, we possess sufficient liquid assets to finance our operative business, to cushion negative developments and to continue to grow from within. 12 Table of Contents Currency Risk We prepare our financial reports in euros (€). Approximately 37% of our sales are invoiced in foreign currencies, primarily in U.S. dollars. Our sales, operating profit and cash flows are significantly exposed to changes in exchange rates between the euro and foreign currencies. We utilize foreign currency forward transactions and options to hedge anticipated receipts in foreign currencies against foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Such hedging transactions are restricted to U.S. dollars in which we generate substantial sales and are conducted exclusively with well-established financial institutions. Pfeiffer Vacuum does not engage in speculative foreign currency forward transactions for investment purposes. 