Risk Factors Related to the Effect on Quinsa of the Current Economic Situation in Argentina - Central Bank restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina could prevent us from receiving sufficient funds from our Argentine subsidiaries and inhibit the distribution of dividends and payments on our external debt” above). These restrictions have been partially reduced. There can be no assurance, however, that the Argentine Central Bank will not once again require its prior authorization for dividend payments to foreign shareholders or for payment of debt obligations. Similarly, no assurances can be made that regulators in other southern cone markets will not impose restrictions on capital flows in the future. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our ability to receive funds from our subsidiaries could be inhibited, and this, in turn, would significantly impact our ability to pay dividends and service our debt obligations. Furthermore, the payment of dividends by us and by our various subsidiaries is also, in certain instances, subject to statutory restrictions and restrictive covenants in debt instruments, like legal reserve requirements, capital and retained earning criteria and other restrictions, and is contingent upon the earnings and cash flow of and permitted borrowings by our subsidiaries. The inability on the part of some of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds abroad would materially impact the amount of funds available to us to pay dividends and service our debt obligations. We face competition that threatens our market share. The growth in beer consumption in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay has attracted new market participants over the past years, producing intensely competitive environments in these markets. The participants in these markets included major local and international concerns with substantial financial resources and particular industrial strengths. Further economic crises and devaluations in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate may make it less expensive for international concerns to make investments in these markets. We intend to continue with strategies designed to maintain or improve our competitive position in our markets but we cannot guarantee that these strategies will be successful. Any loss of market share could be permanent. Competition in the beer market may take the form of aggressive price discounting, which could have a negative impact on our 13 results of operations. Apart from competition within each beer market, beer sales also compete against wine and other alcoholic beverage sales and, to a lesser extent, with soft drinks. You should also read “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition in the Southern Cone Markets.” The carbonated soft drink market and non-carbonated beverage market are also highly competitive. Competition in these markets could cause us to reduce pricing, increase capital and other expenditures or lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We, through our operating subsidiaries, own the PepsiCo® bottling franchises for all of Argentina and Uruguay. Our most significant competitors are local Coca-Cola® bottlers and second-tier brands that compete exclusively on a price basis. Our market share in some of our markets has eroded over the past few years. There can be no guarantee that, should there be another economic crisis in Argentina, consumers, and particularly lower-income consumers, will not again shift their purchases to lower-cost second-tier brands and away from our subsidiaries’ premium products or force our subsidiaries to reduce the prices that they charge for their products. You should also read “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition in the Southern Cone Markets”. Our business currently is controlled by one primary shareholder; therefore our other shareholders have little or no influence over shareholder decisions, including the election of directors. AmBev, a company organized under the laws of Brazil, currently holds a 97.83% voting interest in our share capital (net of treasury shares and shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of registered shares to bearer shares). AmBev is the Brazilian brewing company with which we entered into a strategic alliance on January 31, 2003. AmBev is controlled indirectly by InBev, a company domiciled and publicly traded in Belgium and the leading global brewer by volume. As of August 31, 2007, InBev owned a 59.85% interest in AmBev. AmBev has the power to determine all matters requiring Quinsa shareholder approval, including the election of all directors. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development—Relationship with AmBev” for a description of the detailed terms of this strategic alliance. AmBev may choose to make material changes in the manner in which Quinsa’s business and operations are currently conducted. On August 8, 2006, AmBev acquired sole control of Quinsa and, as such, the voting power to determine all matters requiring Quinsa shareholder approval, including the power to select and elect all of Quinsa’s directors. AmBev, as a member of a much larger multi-national corporation, may have interests that differ in certain respects from the interests of persons who are investors only in Quinsa. Additionally, as our controlling shareholder, AmBev may be inclined to make business decisions with respect to the Company that are different from those that have been made by our shareholders in the past and these decisions may result in changes in Quinsa’s business, objectives, prospects and financial performance. We cannot predict what these changes might be or whether any of these changes might materially adversely affect our other shareholders. We periodically negotiate labor contracts and salaries with trade unions. A break-down in negotiations could result in work stoppages. We have begun discussions of a new contract with both trade unions our workers in Argentina are affiliated to (the beer workers and the soft drink workers unions) and we expect the members of both unions to continue working under the terms of the old contract until a new one is agreed on. While we are not expecting any material adverse effects on our financial performance from the fact that our soft drink workers will be working without a contract or from these negotiations, the outcome at this time is uncertain. Also in Argentina, the truck drivers’ trade union has organized work stoppages and has blocked the distribution of an assortment of consumer products during the course of their negotiations over the past months. Most recently, in April, 2007, they organized a week-long stoppage to avoid implementation of a long announced restructuring of a part of our third-party distribution network. The truck drivers union is also in discussions regarding a new labor contract. While we do not directly employ truck drivers, this situation may affect our distributors and the logistics companies that we use to deliver orders that originate from our sales force. Work stoppages have not yet materially affected our financial performance. However, any future breakdown in negotiations would affect our ability to sell and deliver our products, and this situation could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 14 The business in Uruguay was seriously affected by disruptive measures taken by trade unions representing transportation workers and by the chamber of freight companies. Delivery of our products in that country was seriously hindered for the better part of three months, during the fourth quarter of 2006. The negative effects of this were felt both in terms of lost sales and also in terms of market share. Although an agreement has been signed with both parties, no assurances can be made that they will not again introduce disruptive actions in the future, even during the life of our agreements with them. In Bolivia we are also witnessing a hardening of the relationship between business and trade unions. While we have suffered no strikes or similar actions yet, we can give no assurances that that will not change in the future, regardless of any agreements signed with them to date. We purchase significant quantities of commodities and raw materials, the prices of which fluctuate widely. We purchase commodities and raw materials for the production of beer and soft drinks. These commodities and raw materials include barley, malt, aluminum cans and PET polyethylene terephthalate bottle preforms and, to a lesser extent, corn grits, rice and hops. The prices of these commodities can fluctuate widely and are determined by global supply and demand and other factors over which we have no control. We hedge our raw material costs on a limited basis, although our policy may change in the future. Any changes in commodity and raw material prices could have a direct and significant impact on our costs. In addition, we purchase most of our barley, malt, aluminum cans and plastic bottle preforms in local currency and principally in Argentina; therefore, we incur certain costs of sales and expenses in local currencies. However, because the price of these raw materials may vary with international prices which are denominated in U.S. dollars, we cannot guarantee that the percentage of our cost of sales represented by these items will not increase significantly due to currency devaluations in our countries of operation. Due to the economic situation in Argentina, towards the end of 2001 we began to purchase most of the raw materials that we used to import from local suppliers for our Argentine business. Although we did not experience any supply problems in 2006, if economic conditions worsen, even our local suppliers of raw materials may have difficulty providing such materials in the future. Furthermore, since all commodities are pegged to international prices, their prices are necessarily volatile and any devaluation of the currencies of the countries in which we operate could impact our direct costs associated with the purchase of these raw materials. We depend to a certain extent on adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas for beer production. Following the Argentine economic crisis of 2002, the possibility of gas and electricity shortages in Argentina has increased. Argentina has experienced gas and electricity shortages that have resulted in temporary and sporadic restrictions on the supply of energy. Possible restrictions on the supply of energy could curtail our production and negatively impact results of operations. After several years of recession, the forced conversion of Argentine pesos and U.S. dollars at a one-to-one exchange rate and the subsequent freezing of gas and electricity tariffs, there has been a lack of investment to increase gas and electricity supply capacity. Over the past few years, demand for natural gas has increased substantially, driven by a recovery of the Argentine economy and lower natural gas prices compared to alternative fuel sources. In addition, the supply of electricity has also been strained due to the scarcity of natural gas and other alternative fuels. The Argentine government has adopted a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of supply restrictions, including measures aimed at limiting the increase of residential consumption (by increasing the price of compressed natural gas) and importing natural gas from Bolivia, electricity from Brazil and fuel oil from Venezuela. Possible gas and electricity cuts could impact our production in the future and also affect that of our local suppliers. They could also increase our cost of production, since alternative energy sources are more expensive. 15 Our business could be affected by legal challenges associated with Argentine antitrust legislation On January 31, 2003, we completed the transactions related to the formation of a strategic relationship with AmBev. Pursuant to this alliance, our Argentine subsidiary, CMQ, has benefited from the integration of its own operations in Argentina with those of AmBev. One of the conditions to closing the transaction was the receipt of approval of the Argentine antitrust authorities of such alliance. On January 13, 2003, the Argentine antitrust authorities approved the transactions subject to certain conditions, some of which included the transfer of ownership by AmBev and CMQ, within twelve months of the date of approval, of certain assets (including brands, recipes, and a beer production plant located in Buenos Aires) to independent purchasers with no existing beer production in Argentina. In addition, the approval imposed certain obligations for CMQ, such as the preservation of the business value and economic feasibility as well as full production capacity of the assets that were to be transferred. In April 2003, one of our competitors, Compañía Cervecerías Unidas S.A. (“CCU”), contested the conditions imposed by the Argentine antitrust authorities by filing a claim with the Civil and Commercial Federal Court of Appeals in Argentina seeking to enjoin CMQ’s sale of these brands because CCU believed it should be entitled to bid for them. CCU was barred from bidding for those brands because it carries out beer activities in Argentina, and therefore did not qualify as a permitted purchaser under the Argentine antitrust authorities’ stipulations. CCU’s claim tolled the time period in which CMQ was required to sell its brands. CCU’s claim was rejected by the Civil and Commercial Federal Court of Appeals, after which CCU filed an extraordinary appeal with the Argentine Supreme Court for review of the Federal Court of Appeals’ decision. In March 2006, the Supreme Court of Justice dismissed CCU’s claim. CMQ therefore reinstated the process by means of which it intended to sell its brands and assets. The process was finally approved by the Secretary of Domestic Trade with the previous favorable advice of the Argentine Antitrust Commission (“CNDC”) on December 12, 2006. All of the conditions imposed by the Argentine antitrust authorities were satisfied by February, 2007. Therefore the regulatory agency and the Secretary of Domestic Trade granted final approval to the strategic relationship with AmBev. In 2004, C.A.S.A Isenbeck (“Isenbeck”), the Argentine subsidiary of the German Warsteiner Brauerei Haus Cramer, asked the CNDC to issue an order requiring Quinsa and AmBev to cease the integration of their operations and to act as independent companies until all the conditions set forth by the Argentine antitrust authorities were complied with. The Argentine antitrust authorities rejected the suit, and Isenbeck appealed this decision. The antitrust authorities then ruled that Isenbeck had no right to appeal their decision. Isenbeck appealed to the Civil and Commercial Federal Court of Appeals, who granted Isenbeck such right and held that the CNDC had to decide which acts AmBev and CMQ were authorized to carry out jointly until conditions were met. CNDC authorized the integration with certain restrictions until the transaction was fully approved on December 12, 2006. Isenbeck has also accused CMQ and the then Argentine subsidiary of AmBev of collusive practices arising from their joint marketing, distribution and invoicing activities (i.e., tied-in sales and obstructive practices) before their merger was formally approved. An administrative dossier is currently being analyzed by the CNDC, and we have already filed preliminary explanations and information. Should the CNDC sanction CMQ, it may appeal to the Civil and Commercial Federal Court of Appeals. Isenbeck as plaintiff has desisted of this complaint. It is likely that the CNDC will not go ahead with this investigation. Isenbeck also filed a complaint (“amparo proceeding”) with the Federal Administrative Court trying to challenge the decision of the Argentine antitrust authorities dated January 13, 2003. The Federal Administrative Court declared its incompetence and sent the docket to the Civil and Commercial Federal Court. The Civil and Commercial Federal Court Nº 1 considered the docket as a claim subject to ordinary proceeding rules and not eligible to undergo a fast track “amparo proceeding”. It also rejected an injunction requested by plaintiff and such rejection was confirmed by the Civil and Commercial Court of Appeals. The Court ordered the service of the complaint to the defendant (the National State), who responded the complaint after the expiration of the legal procedural term to respond. We asked the Court to be considered as interested third parties but the Court has not yet decided said motion. Isenbeck, as plaintiff, has desisted the action and the right associated with this complaint. 16 The Company’s effective tax rate in Luxembourg may increase materially as a result of changes in Luxembourg tax law. See also “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Luxembourg Taxes”. There is a risk that the Company’s tax liability will increase as a result of changes in Luxembourg tax law. The Company currently benefits from a specific tax regime as a billionaire holding company and is exempt from Luxembourg corporate tax and net worth tax. Additionally, distributions from the company currently benefit from an exemption from withholding tax. However, the billionaire holding company regime was abolished on December 22, 2006 and replaced by a new law. The new law, nevertheless, allows pre-existing companies such as the Company to continue to benefit from the tax-exempt regime until December 31, 2010, provided certain conditions are fulfilled (see “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Luxembourg Taxes” for more details). In particular, the Company’s tax-exempt billionaire holding company status will be maintained until December 31, 2010, subject to the Company’s shares continuing to be listed on a recognized stock exchange during the transitional period. Whether such listing will be maintained is not solely under the control of the Company. Thereafter, the Company will be a fully taxable Luxembourg company and subject to various Luxembourg taxes, including without limitation, an effective corporate income tax of 29.63% on its world-wide income, an annual net worth tax of 0.5%, and a withholding tax of up to 15% on distributions to shareholders. While we cannot predict with certainty what the Company’s effective Luxembourg tax rate will be in 2010, there is a risk that it will be materially higher than it is today. ITEM 