Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4 (Removed and Reserved) Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 21 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 21 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 21 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 22 Item 9B Other Information 22 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 23 Item 11 Executive Compensation 24 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 24 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 24 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 24 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 25 Signatures 26 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Chiquita, including: the customary risks experienced by global food companies, such as prices for commodity and other inputs, currency exchange rate fluctuations, industry and competitive conditions (all of which may be more unpredictable in light of continuing uncertainty in the global economic environment), government regulations, food safety issues and product recalls affecting the company or the industry, labor relations, taxes, political instability and terrorism; unusual weather events, conditions or crop risks; access to and cost of financing; and the outcome of pending litigation and governmental investigations involving the company, as well as the legal fees and other costs incurred in connection with such items. The forward-looking statements speak as of the date made and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, and the company undertakes no obligation to update any such statements. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Chiquita Brands International, Inc. (“CBII”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Chiquita,” we, us or the company) operate as a leading international marketer and distributor of (1) bananas and other fresh produce sold under the Chiquita® and other brand names in nearly 70 countries and (2) packaged salads sold under the Fresh Express® and other brand names primarily in the United States. We produce approximately one-third of the bananas we market on our own farms, and purchase the remainder of the bananas and all of the lettuce and other fresh produce from third-party suppliers throughout the world. No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales during any of the last three years. Business Segments Chiquita reports the following three business segments: • Bananas. Includes the sourcing (purchase and production), transportation, marketing and distribution of bananas. • Salads and Healthy Snacks. Includes ready-to-eat, packaged salads, referred to in the industry as “value-added salads”; and other value-added products, such as healthy snacking products, fresh vegetable and fruit ingredients used in food service, processed fruit ingredient products and an equity-method investment, which sells Chiquita-branded fruit smoothies in Europe. • Other Produce. Includes the sourcing, marketing and distribution of whole fresh fruits and vegetables other than bananas. BANANA SEGMENT We source, distribute and market bananas that are sold principally under the “Chiquita” brand name. Banana segment net sales were $1.9 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Banana sales amounted to 60%, 60% and 57% of our consolidated net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Banana sales in European and Middle Eastern markets were 57%, 61% and 62% of the segment sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Middle Eastern markets include Iran, where the U.S. government permits us to sell bananas because they are food products. The majority of the remaining sales, in the banana segment, are in North America. We receive royalties from the use of the Chiquita-brand under a trademark licensing agreement with a third party for banana sales in Japan and Korea. Competition Bananas are distributed and marketed internationally in a highly competitive environment. Our primary competitors include a limited number of multi-national banana importers and exporters, principally Dole Food Company, Inc. and Fresh Del Monte Produce, Inc. In addition, the vertical integration and direct-sourcing activities of large retailers, as well as a wide range of smaller banana export companies, including growers’ cooperatives, are significant competitive factors. To compete successfully, we must be able to source bananas of uniformly high quality at a competitive cost, maintain strong customer relationships, and quickly and reliably transport and distribute products to worldwide markets and maintain our brand. Markets, Customers and Distribution Our principal markets are North America and Europe. In Europe, we are a market leader and obtain a price premium for our Chiquita bananas. In North America, we maintain a No. 2 market position in bananas and import more than one-fourth of the bananas in the market. Our Core Europe market consists of the 27 member states of the European Union (“EU”), Switzerland, Norway and Iceland. We also ship bananas regularly to various non-EU countries accessed through the Mediterranean that offer a growth opportunity through increasing consumption and purchasing power. When selling in these Mediterranean countries, we may vary the port of discharge and sale based on prevailing market conditions. Our other international markets are primarily in the Middle East including Iran and Syria. Sales in the Mediterranean and Middle Eastern markets are primarily invoiced in U.S. dollars. 1 Table of Contents We have regional sales organizations to service major retail customers and wholesalers. In most cases, these sales organizations provide services for all of our products, not just bananas, as well as customer support, including assistance with transportation and logistics, ripening, and category management for bananas and other produce. In both Europe and North America, we sell “green” (unripened) bananas and “yellow” (ripened) bananas, which are ripened in our facilities. Many customers have their own facilities to ripen “green” bananas purchased from Chiquita or other sources; in some cases, we provide technical advice or operate the customers’ ripening facilities. We also provide retail marketing support services for our customers. These ripening, advisory and support services help us develop and strengthen long-term supply relationships with our customers. In North America, we most often sell bananas and related services under one-year contracts to national and regional grocery retailers. These contracts typically have fixed per-box base prices, and also include variable surcharges based on fuel indices that are intended to recover changes in transportation and other fuel-based costs. An advantage of these contracts is that they stabilize pricing throughout the year and reduce our exposure to volatile spot market prices. A disadvantage is that we may not always be able to pass on unexpected cost increases when they arise or may not be able to take advantage of short-term, market-driven price increases due to short supply or other factors. Approximately 90% of the volume sold in North America is sold under these contracts; the remainder is on the spot market. In Europe and the Mediterranean, our customers are also large grocery retailers, ripeners and wholesalers. These customers typically seek annual or multi-year arrangements with pricing that is flexible, depending on market conditions. Bananas and other produce are typically sold on the basis of weekly price quotes, which fluctuate significantly due to supply conditions, seasonal trends, transportation costs, currency exchange rates, competitive dynamics and other factors. Banana sales in the Middle East and some banana sales in Europe are under fixed-price per box contracts that often include differential pricing, with higher pricing in the first half of the year and lower pricing in the second half to correspond with the seasonal supply-and-demand dynamics. In the past, it was not economically feasible to distribute single bananas to quick-service restaurants and convenience stores because of the high spoilage rates when bananas are not kept under controlled conditions and when they cannot be delivered frequently. We have an agreement with a subsidiary of Landec Corporation to obtain patented packaging technology that extends the shelf-life of bananas and allows profitable distribution through these channels. This technology was used to introduce “Chiquita to Go” bananas into quick-service restaurants and convenience stores in supply boxes containing individual bananas. We have also adapted this technology to certain other produce items, such as avocados, to extend shelf-life. Pricing Banana pricing depends on several factors, including the availability of bananas in comparison to consumer demand, and their quantity and quality in relation to competing fresh fruit items. Banana pricing (both to purchase and to sell other than in fixed-price-per-box contracts) is subject to seasonal variations because banana demand is higher in the first half of the year as local produce that competes with bananas largely comes to market in the summer and fall. As a consequence, banana prices and our Banana segment results are typically stronger during the first half of the year. We generally obtain a premium price for our bananas sold in Europe, where many stores offer two quality levels of bananas, which we believe is due to the strength of the “Chiquita” brand and our reputation for consistent product quality, leadership in consumer marketing and category management, and innovative ripening techniques. Sourcing Bananas grow in tropical climates where the temperature generally does not fall below 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Under normal circumstances, banana plants can produce fruit for harvest approximately every seven months. After harvest, bananas are washed and, in most cases, cut into clusters and packed into 40-pound boxes. The boxes of bananas are placed on pallets and loaded into containers for shipment. The production of bananas is vulnerable, amongst other factors, to (1) adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, (2) natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, (3) crop disease, such as the leaf fungus, black sigatoka, and (4) pests. If banana plants are destroyed, new plantings will bear fruit for harvest in approximately nine months under normal circumstances. If grown under stressed conditions, banana production may be lower in both quantity and quality. 2 Table of Contents During 2010, approximately 26%, 17%, 16%, 12% and 11% of all bananas sold by Chiquita were sourced from Ecuador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Colombia and Panama, respectively. We also source bananas from numerous other countries. In 2010, approximately one-third of the bananas we sourced were produced by subsidiaries on owned farms and the remainder were purchased from independent growers under short and long-term fruit supply contracts, under which we take title to the fruit either at packing stations or once loaded aboard ships. Although we maintain broad geographic diversification for purchased bananas, we have a significant reliance upon long-term relationships with certain large growers. In 2010, our three largest independent growers, which operate in Colombia, Ecuador and the Philippines provided approximately 29% of our total purchased volume. Our largest supplier of bananas is an affiliate of C.I. Banacol S.A., a Colombia-based producer and exporter of bananas and other fruit products, with whom we have an agreement for the purchase of bananas produced in Colombia through 2012. Through this agreement, we purchased approximately 8 million boxes of bananas in 2010, primarily from Colombia, representing more than 10% of our purchased banana volume. We evaluate our banana sourcing decisions periodically, including both the sourcing countries (where local currency, tax rules, regulatory environment, political and economic stability, labor practices and exit prices, among other things, may play a role) and whether we should purchase or grow bananas. Because of our investment in farms, changing this allocation cannot be done quickly. Purchasing bananas allows us to reduce our financial and operating risks and avoid the substantial capital required to maintain and finance additional banana farms; it also permits us to avoid large expenditures in the event of major damage to farms resulting from weather, floods, disease or earthquakes. However, producing our own bananas permits us to more closely control the agricultural practices, which we believe contributes to the quality of the fruit. Typically, banana purchase agreements have one or two year terms, but in some cases may have terms as long as 10 years. However, the applicable prices under some of these agreements may be renegotiated annually or every other year and, if new purchase prices cannot be agreed upon, the contracts will terminate. The long-term purchase agreements typically include provisions relating to agricultural practices, packing and fruit handling, environmental practices, food safety, social responsibility standards, penalties payable by Chiquita if we do not take delivery of contracted fruit, penalties payable by the grower for shortages to contracted volumes and other provisions common to contracts for the international sale of goods. Under some fruit supply arrangements, we provide the growers with technical assistance related to production and packing of bananas for shipment. We believe that our agricultural practices contribute to the quality of the bananas we produce. For this reason, we also specify many of the same requirements for our contract growers. When there are disruptions to banana supply, we may have to source bananas on a “spot” basis from growers who have available fruit. In these circumstances, we may have to pay higher market prices and are not able to ensure that our recommended agricultural practices have been followed. Labor costs in Latin America for our owned production of bananas represented 4% of our total banana segment operating costs in 2010. These costs vary depending on the country of origin. To a lesser extent, fertilizer costs and paper costs for the production and packaging of bananas are also important. Logistics Bananas are distributed internationally and are transported primarily by refrigerated, ocean-going vessels. Due to their highly perishable nature, bananas must be brought to market and sold generally within 30 to 40 days after harvest. This requires efficient logistics processes in loading, unloading, transporting and delivering fruit from the farm to the outbound port, from the source country to the market country, and from the inbound port to the customer. To transport our bananas, we charter refrigerated cargo ships that are highly specialized, in both size and technology, for international trade in bananas and other refrigerated products. During 2010, we chartered eleven refrigerated cargo ships used for our core shipping needs from two global shipping operators. All but one of these ships, which we had previously owned, had been built to our specifications for our operations. Eleven of the ships are being chartered through 2014, with options for up to an additional five years. We also have chartered thirteen additional vessels: four through 2011, and nine through 2012. The remainder of our shipping needs, representing approximately 10% of total shipping, is chartered on a spot basis. 3 Table of Contents The price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations is an important variable component of transportation costs. Historically, and especially over the last few years, bunker fuel prices have been volatile. We reduce this volatility by entering into bunker fuel forward contracts that lock in bunker fuel purchase prices of up to three-fourths of our core needs for up to three years. However, these hedging strategies do not fully protect us against continually rising fuel prices, and they can result in losses when market prices for fuel decline, although we expect that any losses on our forward contracts from declines in market prices would be offset by the cost of bunker fuel purchases. See further discussion of our hedging activities in the “Market Risk Management – Financial Instruments” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in Exhibit 13. We also transport third-party cargo on return trips, primarily from North America and Europe, to Latin America to reduce ocean transportation costs. From time to time, we have experienced shipping interruptions for reasons such as mechanical breakdown or damage to a ship, strikes at ports and port damage due to weather (e.g., hurricanes or tropical storms). Although we believe we carry adequate insurance and attempt to transport products by alternative means in the event of an interruption, an extended interruption could have a significant adverse effect on us. We operate loading and unloading facilities that we own or lease in Central, South and North America and enter into third party contract arrangements for port services at various ports of destination in Europe. Most of these ports serve relatively large geographic regions for production or distribution. If a port becomes unavailable, we must access alternate port facilities and reconfigure our distribution network, which can increase costs. We use common carriers to transport bananas overland to ports in Central and South America and from the ports of destination to the customers. Generally, title to the bananas passes to the customer upon delivery, which is either at the port of arrival in North America or Europe or at the customer’s inland facilities. In certain Latin American locations, we operate port facilities for all cargo entering or leaving the port, not just for our own products. Most of our tropical banana shipments into North America and Core Europe are delivered using containers and pallets. To the extent possible, once the bananas are loaded into containers, they remain in the same containers for transportation from the port of loading through ocean transport, port of arrival, discharge and delivery to customers. This minimizes damage to the bananas by eliminating the need to handle individual boxes or pallets and makes it easier to maintain the bananas at a constant temperature. Bananas are harvested while still green and are subsequently ripened. To control quality, bananas are normally ripened under controlled conditions. We have a proprietary Low-Temperature Ripening process, a state-of-the-art banana ripening technique that enables bananas to begin the ripening process in shipping containers during transit, and thereby reduce the amount of inland ripening capacity required. We operate pressurized ripening rooms in Europe and North America to complete the ripening process. We believe our service provides value to customers through improved fruit quality, longer shelf-life, lower inventory levels and lower required investment. SALADS AND HEALTHY SNACKS SEGMENT The Salads and Healthy Snacks segment includes packaged, ready-to-eat salads in the retail market, commonly referred to as “value-added salads,” sold under the Fresh Express and other labels, fresh vegetable and fruit ingredients used in foodservice, healthy snacks, and processed fruit ingredient products. Net sales of the Salads and Healthy Snacks segment were approximately $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our salads business, Fresh Express, is a leading purchaser, processor, packager and distributor of a variety of value-added salads and other healthy snacks in North America. We distribute approximately 210 different retail value-added salad products nationwide to food retailers and approximately 30 value-added healthy snacking products. We also distributed approximately 65 fresh produce foodservice offerings, primarily to third-party distributors for resale mainly to quick-service restaurants located throughout the U.S. 4 Table of Contents Fresh Express’ retail value-added salads had 36%, 44% and 45% retail market share in the U.S. during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is the No. 1 position in the U.S. We ship an average of 13 million fresh, ready-to-eat Fresh Express-branded salad bags to markets across the United States every week. Based upon consumption patterns, volume and profitability are typically higher during the second and third quarters of the year. We believe Fresh Express is a leader in freshness-extending, controlled and modified atmosphere packaging systems for value-added salads. Competition Fresh Express competes with a variety of other nationally branded and retail grocers’ private label value-added salad offerings. Competitors in retail value-added salads include Dole Food Company, Ready Pac, and Earthbound Farms, some of whom also produce value-added salads under retail grocers’ private labels. The market share under private labels has grown significantly during the past two years; however, we have no current plans to produce private label products. In addition, there are many other processed food and other food and produce sellers who could enter the value-added salads category and other healthy snack markets. Approximately one-fifth of the Salads and Healthy Snacks segment net sales have been to foodservice customers. Competitors in the foodservice area are predominately national, regional and local processors. There is intense competition from national and large regional processors when selling produce to foodservice customers, which may require us to market our products and services to a particular customer over a long period of time before we are even invited to bid. We believe we have a competitive advantage in the area of food safety in the salad industry, particularly with our introduction of FreshRinseTM in October 2010. FreshRinse is a new produce wash that significantly reduces microorganisms on particular leafy greens, compared to a traditional chlorine sanitizer. We began transitioning our salad manufacturing lines to use the FreshRinse technology in 2010 and expect to complete the conversion of all of our facilities during the first half of 2011. As part of our commitment to advancing food safety standards, once we have fully implemented FreshRinse, we plan to make the technology available for license to others in the industry and for other produce wash applications. See further discussion of our commitment to food safety in “Health, Environmental and Social Responsibility” below. Markets, Customers and Distribution Our retail value-added salad products are sold under the Fresh Express brand to several of the nation’s top retailers and to a diverse base of customers throughout the United States. Most of these retail accounts are currently under multi-year, fixed-price per case contracts, which include surcharges that adjust based on fuel indices intended to recover fuel-based costs. An advantage of these contracts is that they stabilize demand and pricing throughout the year. A disadvantage is that the company may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases when they arise or may not be able to take advantage of short-term, market-driven price increases. Value-added salads sold to grocery retailers are supported by a sales and marketing organization that includes regional business managers who are responsible for sales to retail grocery accounts within their geographic regions and sales managers who work with a network of brokers across the country to sell products, gain business with new retail accounts and introduce new products to existing retail accounts. This same sales network also handles sales of bananas and other produce sold by Chiquita. We also sell fresh-cut produce, such as lettuce, tomatoes, spinach, cabbage and onions, to foodservice distributors who resell these products to foodservice operators, primarily quick service restaurants. Foodservice customers mainly purchase shredded lettuce; however, we have also introduced higher-margin products into this market, such as premium tender leaf salads. We market to foodservice customers by focusing on large, strategic accounts that provide reliable business at reasonable margins, under contracts that typically allow for the pass-through of raw product and other cost increases on a weekly basis. Customer sales representatives and account managers service these foodservice customers. For certain customers, we also provide inventory management services, where we monitor inventory levels at each of their locations and make deliveries to maximize freshness and minimize shrink (losses on unsold inventory). 5 Table of Contents Fresh Express’ retail value-added salad sales represented approximately 21% of consolidated “Net sales” in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Significant retail value-added salad product lines that represented 10% or more of retail sales include: • Garden. Primarily shredded or chopped iceberg lettuce with portions of shredded red cabbage and shredded carrots. • Garden Plus. Iceberg and romaine combinations with additions such as carrots, cabbage or green leaf lettuce. • Blends. Romaine and other fancier lettuce-based salads. • Tender Leaf Blends. Spring mix and baby spinach blends. • Complete Salads. Salads that contain toppings and dressings. Sourcing We source all of our raw products for the Salads and Healthy Snacks segment from third-party growers, primarily located in California, Arizona and Mexico, but also in Florida, Michigan and Colorado. For lettuce, we often enter into contracts with these growers to help mitigate supply risk and manage exposure to cost fluctuations. We work with the growers and harvesters to develop safe, innovative, quality-enhancing and cost-effective production and harvesting techniques, including techniques to reduce water and agrichemical usage. The geographic diversity of our suppliers helps us to lessen the effects of any event that could cause production declines in a single region. The production of lettuce crops is vulnerable to pests and adverse weather conditions, such as floods, drought and temperature extremes. In the event lettuce crops are severely damaged, the next harvest on the same acreage would be delayed 45 to 120 days, depending on the variety and the time of year. Logistics Lettuce and leafy greens are extremely sensitive to temperature and humidity. Once harvested, the produce is promptly cooled and shipped in temperature-controlled trucks to our processing facilities, where it is inspected, processed, packaged and boxed for shipment. We have processing/distribution plants located in California, Georgia, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Texas. Orders for value-added salads and other fresh-cut produce are shipped quickly after processing, primarily to customer distribution centers or third-party distributors for further redistribution. Deliveries are made in temperature-controlled trucks. We contract for all trucking services with third parties. Our distribution network allows for nationwide daily delivery capability and provides consistently fresh products to customers; we believe more frequent deliveries allow our retail customers to better manage their inventory and reduce product spoilage, which helps increase their margins. Healthy Snacks We also sell a line of healthy snacks, including Chiquita Fruit Bites, which are single-serve fruit snacks sold in convenience, retail and foodservice outlets and quick-service restaurants. Our healthy snacks are sold under the Chiquita brand name. The healthy snacks business involves purchasing, processing, packaging and distributing a variety of fresh-cut apples, pineapples, carrots and other fresh produce items in convenient, Chiquita-branded packaging, such as “Chiquita Fruit Bites” and “Chiquita Duos,” which are sold throughout the U.S. and in certain regions of Europe and China. We source fruit from North and South America and also Europe and China, depending on the season, and cut and package the fruit in sealed packages. Healthy snack processing facilities are in Illinois, Georgia, California, Costa Rica, the Netherlands and China. We make frequent deliveries to customers, which include retailers, such as large grocery chains and convenience stores, and distributors, as well as foodservice customers, mainly quick-service restaurants. Our primary competitors are Del Monte Foods, Fresh Del Monte, Dole Food Company and other regional producers of branded and private label fresh-cut fruit selections. 6 Table of Contents In May 2010, we sold 51% of our European smoothie business to Danone S.A., and formed a joint venture intended to develop, manufacture, and sell Chiquita-branded, packaged fruit juices and fruit smoothies in Europe. The smoothies are a blend of Chiquita banana puree, fruit juice and other fresh fruit. Through 2010, distribution of smoothies has expanded to 15 countries in Europe. It is sold by a regional Chiquita sales force, bottled in Germany and Portugal and distributed through third-party services to make frequent deliveries in refrigerated trucks to retail and convenience customers. Chiquita-branded smoothies have achieved the leading market position in most markets served. Major branded competitors include Tropicana, Innocent and True Fruits. The joint venture is accounted for using the equity method in the Salads and Healthy Snacks segment. OTHER PRODUCE SEGMENT We distribute and market an extensive line of fresh fruit and vegetables other than bananas in Europe and North America and license the use of the Chiquita brand for pineapples sold in Japan and Korea. The major items sold are grapes, melons, pineapples, avocados, and tomatoes. Net sales of the Other Produce segment were approximately $261 million, $253 million and $244 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2009, we began introducing value-added fresh produce, such as Chiquita Fresh & Ready® avocados, which are ripened using a proprietary process and specially packaged to provide consistently ripe avocados and a longer shelf life to retailers and consumers. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we discontinued certain types of low-margin produce to better focus on produce generating sufficient margins or offering growth opportunity by adding value to consumers and retailers. Markets, Customers and Distribution Our Other Produce operations in North America and Europe primarily market Chiquita-branded produce items. These operations strive to market premium-quality items with a consumer focus. A significant number of our retail customers are large organizations with multiple stores, who have significant buying leverage. In North America, we continue to focus on customer service, category management and adding value to our products, such as Chiquita Fresh & Ready avocados. The European operations are conducted throughout Western and Southern Europe where customers typically do not enter into contracts, but purchase fruit at market prices that change weekly. We license our Chiquita brand name to a third party to sell pineapples in Japan and Korea and receive royalties on these sales. Our primary competitors in the Other Produce segment are other wholesalers and distributors of fresh produce, which may be local or national. Sourcing The majority of Other Produce items are sourced from growers in Central and South America. Fruit harvested in the southern hemisphere can be shipped to the northern hemisphere during the winter off-season. Sourcing commitments with growers for non-banana fresh produce are generally for one growing season, but we source with many of the same growers year after year. In some cases, we provide growers of non-banana produce advances during the growing season or as the fruit is shipped to us. Advances are generally repaid when the produce is harvested and sold. These advances are generally short-term in nature. We require property liens and pledges of the season’s produce as collateral to support the advances. During 2010, we purchased more than 100 different varieties of fresh produce from growers and importers around the world. We try to procure fresh produce directly from growers wherever possible and, with the exception of grapes, are not heavily dependent on any single grower for Other Produce products; we purchase the majority of our grapes from a single grower in Chile for marketing in both North America and Europe. Logistics Fresh produce generally must be brought to market and sold within 30 to 60 days after harvest. Some items, such as vegetables, melons and berries, must be sold more quickly, while other items, such as apples and pears, can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. We generally use common carriers to transport this fresh produce, and in some cases, particularly in Europe, purchase and take title to the produce in the local market where it will be sold. 7 Table of Contents For further information on factors affecting our results of operations, including results by business segment, liquidity and financial condition, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in Exhibit 13, and “Item 1A - Risk Factors.” Intellectual Property Substantially all of our intellectual property is pledged as collateral under our senior secured credit facility. The Chiquita brand is recognized in North America and many parts of Europe and Asia. The Chiquita® trademark is owned by our main operating subsidiary, Chiquita Brands L.L.C. (“CBL”), and is registered in approximately 100 countries. We generally obtain a premium price for our Chiquita branded bananas sold in Europe. We also own hundreds of other trademarks, registered throughout the world, used on our second-quality bananas and on a wide variety of other fresh and prepared food products. The Fresh Express® trademark is registered in the U.S., Canada and several countries in Europe and the Far East. Fresh Express also owns registrations for a variety of other trademarks used in our value-added salads business. Since 2009, we have licensed the use of the Chiquita brand name for the sale of whole, fresh bananas and pineapples in Japan and Korea. To a limited extent, we also license our trademarks to other companies for use in prepared processed food products, for example, baby and toddler food, fruit juices and smoothies, and banana bread mix. Fresh Express and its affiliates have patents covering a number of proprietary technologies, including methods of harvesting, treating and maintaining produce products and patents related to packaging design. These patents expire at various times from 2011 through 2029. In the food preparation field, where patents generally provide protection for up to 20 years, new technology typically develops before existing patents and proprietary rights expire. Fresh Express also relies heavily on certain proprietary machinery and processes that are used to manufacture and package some of its products. Health, Environmental and Social Responsibility Chiquita’s worldwide operations and products are subject to inspections by environmental, food safety, health and customs authorities and numerous governmental regulations, including those relating to the use and disposal of agrichemicals, the documentation of food shipments and the traceability of food products. We believe we are substantially in compliance with applicable regulations. Since the early 1990s, we have implemented programs to significantly improve our environmental performance related to banana production. We have undertaken a considerable effort to achieve certification under the standards of the Rainforest Alliance, an independent non-governmental organization. This certification program for banana producers is aimed at improving and managing environmental impacts and improving conditions for workers. All of our owned banana farms in Latin America have been certified under this program since 2000. We also encourage and work with our third-party suppliers to achieve compliance with these standards. Certification requires that farms meet pre-defined performance criteria as judged by annual audits conducted by the Sustainable Agriculture Network, a coalition of third-party environmental groups coordinated by the Rainforest Alliance. Similarly, since 2004, all of our owned banana farms in Latin America have achieved certification to the Social Accountability 8000 labor standard, which is based on the core International Labor Organization conventions. We were the first major agricultural operator to earn this certification in each of the Latin American countries where we have owned farms (Costa Rica, Panama, Honduras and Guatemala). In addition, as of November 2005, all of our owned banana farms had achieved certification to GlobalGAP, an international food safety standard. 8 Table of Contents Fresh Express also maintains extremely high standards in the area of food safety. Our food safety requirements also apply to our third-party growers, suppliers and processors. The Fresh Express food safety practices include (1) multi-point monitoring from field to shelf; (2) pre-approval and monitoring of the fields where Fresh Express products are grown, including monitoring water quality and soil treatments as well as ensuring an appropriate distance is maintained to limit exposure to potential contamination risks such as livestock and composting operations and (3) utilizing our own expert auditors to assess growing, harvesting and cooling operations. Consumers can also trace select varieties of Fresh Express salad to the region(s) where they were harvested, simply by entering the Leaf Locator code on the bag at www.freshexpress.com/YourSaladStory. The introduction of our FreshRinse produce wash technology and our intentions to license the technology to others in the industry further demonstrates our commitment to food safety. FreshRinse is a scientifically validated advancement that delivers a significant reduction in microorganisms on particular leafy greens compared to a conventional chlorine sanitizer. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 21,000 employees, approximately 16,000 of whom work in Latin America. Approximately 14,000 of the employees working in Latin America are covered by labor contracts. Many of the Latin American labor contracts, covering approximately 4,000 employees, are currently being negotiated and/or expire in 2011. Approximately 1,800 of the company’s Fresh Express employees in the U.S. are covered by labor contracts and one of the Fresh Express labor contracts expires before the end of 2011. International Operations We operate in many foreign countries, including those in Central America, Europe, the Middle East including Iran, China and Africa. Information about our operations by geographic area can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Exhibit 13. Our global activities are subject to risks inherent in operating in those countries, including government regulation, currency restrictions, fluctuations and other restraints, import and export restrictions, burdensome taxes, risks of expropriation, threats to employees, political instability, terrorist activities, including extortion, and risks of U.S. and foreign governmental action in relation to us. Should such circumstances occur, we might need to curtail, cease or alter our activities in a particular region or country. Trade restrictions apply to certain countries, such as Iran, that require us to obtain licenses from the U.S. government for sales in these countries; these sales are able to be licensed because the products we sell are food staples and the specific parties involved in the sales are cleared by the U.S. government. Our operations in some Central American countries are dependent upon leases and other agreements with the governments of these countries. We lease the land for our Bocas division on the Caribbean coast of Panama, from the Republic of Panama. The initial 20-year lease term expires at the end of 2017 and has two consecutive 12-year extension periods. We can cancel the lease at any time on three years’ prior notice; the Republic of Panama has the right not to renew the lease at the end of the initial term or any extension period, provided that it gives four years’ prior notice. Our international operations involve a variety of currencies, and our most significant exposure is to the euro. Approximately 40% of our total sales were in Europe in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008. Sales and operating expenses in our Core European markets are primarily denominated in euros and other major European currencies. We also have significant operations in Latin America that result in costs in those local currencies; however banana and other produce purchase contracts are typically in U.S. dollars. We reduce currency exchange risk from sales originating in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by exchanging local currencies for dollars promptly upon receipt. We further reduce our currency exposure for these sales by purchasing hedging instruments (principally euro put option contracts) to hedge the dollar value of our estimated net euro cash flow exposure up to 18 months into the future if we determine the cost-benefit is favorable. Put option contracts allow us to exchange a certain amount of euros for U.S. dollars at either the exchange rate in the option contract or the spot rate, but require upfront premium payments. For information with respect to our hedging activities, see Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Exhibit 13. 9 Table of Contents In the United States, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act affords producers or sellers of fresh agricultural produce, such as the company, special rights in seeking to collect payment from customers, including those that are insolvent or bankrupt. For more information on certain risks of international operations, see “Item 1A - Risk Factors.” Other Legal and Compliance Risks Our worldwide operations are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, ranging from environmental, food safety and product labeling described above to laws regarding matters such as bribery and improper payments, regulation of competition, labor and employment and government contracting. There is also a risk that legal or regulatory requirements will be changed or that administrative policies will change. For example, concerns about data privacy in recent years have resulted in more regulation and more activity by regulators. We believe we are substantially in compliance with applicable regulations. However, actions by regulators in the past have required, and in the future may require, operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. In addition, if violations occur, regulators can impose fines, penalties and other sanctions. The costs of these modifications, improvements, fines and penalties could be substantial. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to private lawsuits alleging that our operations caused personal injury or property damage. Additional Information Through our website www.chiquitabrands.com, we make available our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments, shortly after they are filed with the SEC. To access these documents go to http://www.chiquitabrands.com/InvestorRelations/InvestorRelations.aspx and click on SEC Filings. Our corporate governance policies, board committee charters and Code of Conduct are also available on our website at http://www.chiquitabrands.com/InvestorRelations/Governance.aspx. A copy of any of these documents will be provided to any shareholder upon request to the Corporate Secretary, Chiquita Brands International, Inc., 250 East Fifth St., Cincinnati, Ohio, 45202 or by calling (513) 784-8100. The documents available on our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider (1) the risks described below in conjunction with (2) all of the information set forth in this 10-K report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Exhibit 13 and (3) information in our other filings with the SEC, including any future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, which may include additional or updated risk factors. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known or which we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations, and even the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which the pricing of our products is substantially dependent on market forces, and we may not be able to pass on all of our increased costs to our customers. We primarily sell to retailers and wholesalers. Continuing industry consolidation (horizontally and vertically) and other factors have increased the buying leverage of the major grocery retailers in all of our markets. Because most produce items must be brought to market promptly, we generally cannot time our purchase and sale of products to take advantage of market changes. In addition, industry supply of any produce item at any given time may be subject, in part, to uncontrollable factors, such as weather conditions. Excess industry supply of any produce item may result in increased price competition for the same or competing items. We make supply decisions and allocate fruit to each market based on our expectations of market conditions; however, due to the time required for transportation, which can be three weeks for certain parts of Europe, market conditions may change before the fruit is sold, and we may not be able to achieve our expected profit, or in extreme cases, recover our costs. If market demand or pricing is low, we generally have the option of paying our independent banana growers a liquidation price, rather than buying our contracted volume of fruit, to avoid incurring transportation costs to bring surplus fruit to market. In North America, our customers generally seek annual or multi-year contracts with suppliers that can provide a wide range of fresh produce. Our banana contracts in North America typically include a fixed price per box with variable fuel surcharges that are adjusted based on market indices. Our North American salads business also typically sells value-added salads and healthy snacks under fixed-price per case contracts that include similar surcharges. While fixed-price contracts provide more predictable selling prices and protect against short-term, market-driven price declines, we may not be able to pass on cost increases including those related to increased regulation or food safety that are not fuel-related or take advantage of short-term, market-driven price increases. Bidding for contracts or arrangements with retailers, particularly large chain stores and other large customers, is highly competitive. The prices at which we bid particular contracts may not be sufficient to retain existing business, maintain current levels of profitability or to obtain new business. Where we do not have fixed price contracts, the selling price received for each type of produce depends on several factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In European and the Mediterranean markets, bananas and other produce are sold primarily on the basis of weekly price quotes, even for customers with whom we have annual supply agreements. These prices may fluctuate significantly due to supply conditions, seasonal trends, transportation costs, currency exchange rates, competitive dynamics and other factors. In addition to direct competition with other industry participants, a few major retailers have begun to purchase a portion of their fruit directly from independent growers, or to contract directly for transportation of tropical fruit products. While these activities are currently a small part of the market, a significantly increased commitment by retailers to manage their own supply chain could affect industry dynamics. 11 Table of Contents We expect increases in commodity and raw product costs, including purchased fruit, fertilizer, paper, shipping costs and fuel; to the extent that we cannot pass them on to our customers, they could adversely affect our operating results. We generally expect fuel-related costs and purchased fruit prices to increase over time, although we have some long-term supply agreements which can fix a portion of our costs for an agreed duration. We offset the effect of these increases through fuel surcharges and mitigate the effect of fluctuating fuel prices by purchasing bunker fuel forward contracts that lock in fuel prices for up to 75% of our expected core shipping needs for up to three years. In addition, diesel fuel and other transportation costs are significant components of much of the produce that we purchase from growers and distributors. If the price of any of these items increases significantly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on those increases to our customers. In 2010, we purchased approximately two-thirds of our bananas and all of our lettuce and other produce from independent growers. Increased costs for purchased fruit and vegetables have negatively affected our operating results in the past, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. Many external factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including: market fluctuations; currency fluctuations; changes in governmental regulations, including exit prices for bananas (which are set by the government in several banana exporting countries); agricultural programs; severe and prolonged weather conditions; natural disasters; labor relations; and other factors. Many other commodity food products are experiencing major price increases, which may affect pricing dynamics in the industry. If the price of the fresh produce that we purchase increases significantly, we may not able to effectively pass these costs along to our customers and consumers. Fertilizer and paper costs are significant for the production and packaging of bananas. Although most of our ocean shipping needs are provided under long-term charters with negotiated fixed rates, we pay market rates for ships under short-term charters. Although short-term ship charter rates have been recently decreasing, as the global economy recovers, rates may increase in the future because of declining global refrigerated cargo capacity or other market conditions. The price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations is an important variable component of our transportation costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially in recent years. Global economic uncertainties continue to affect consumers’ purchasing habits and customer financial stability, which may affect sales volume and profitability on some of our products and have other impacts that we cannot fully predict. As a result of continuing global economic uncertainties, consumers have become more careful in their purchases, which may affect sales and pricing of some of our products. In Europe, our bananas are sold as a premium brand at a premium price, and price-conscious consumers may shift to “value” or unbranded bananas, which may affect the volume and price at which we can sell Chiquita-branded bananas and the profitability of our European business. In the North American salads business, the category grew only slightly in 2010 and within the category there is continuing pressure from private label competitors, which affected our volume. Similar trends have resulted in pressure on pricing and volume of some of our other value-added products, such as smoothies sold in Europe through our joint venture with Danone. There can be no assurance regarding whether and how consumer purchasing habits will change or the extent to which current trends will affect our business. The full effect and duration of the current global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to Chiquita that could result in a decrease in their business with us, breaches of obligations to us or, in certain cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk from any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be one or more commercial or financial partners that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressure in the industry may result in effects on our business partners and competitors which could affect competition and business strategy within the industry. 12 Table of Contents Like many other companies operating in the current economic environment, we have evaluated many positions within the company for their contribution and eliminated some management and lower level positions in recent years. Our control structure relies on manual controls at various levels of the organization which require employees with in-depth company knowledge in order to be effective. While this approach seeks to optimize our cost structure, and provides growth opportunities for employees, maintaining a lean organization can limit our flexibility to efficiently handle new strategic initiatives or required changes. In addition, while we have succession plans in place at senior levels of the company, the elimination of overlap of responsibilities at all levels of the organization increases the risks relating to the effect of employee turnover, which could be exacerbated if some sectors of the economy recover more quickly than ours and other companies begin to increase hiring sooner or more extensively than we do. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. In the past, weather-related events have significantly affected our results of operations. Although we maintain insurance to cover certain weather-related losses, insurance does not cover all weather-related events and, even when an event is covered, our retention or deductible may be significant. There can be no assurance regarding the extent to which we may be able to pass on uninsured costs in the future. Many theorize that global warming may cause permanent climate changes and/or lead to more frequent or more severe weather conditions or events that could adversely affect our business. In the fourth quarter of 2010, cooler temperatures across Latin American growing regions resulted in lower productivity, which affected all competitors and resulted in lower volumes of fruit available in the market and higher costs. Bananas, lettuce and other produce can be affected by drought, temperature extremes, hurricanes, windstorms and floods; floods in particular may affect bananas, which are typically grown in tropical lowland areas. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of agricultural production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions caused by these factors can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost. These factors may result in lower sales volume and, in the case of farms we own or manage, increased costs due to expenditures for additional agricultural techniques or agrichemicals, the repair of infrastructure, and the replanting of damaged or destroyed crops. Incremental costs, including transportation, may also be incurred if we need to find alternate short-term supplies of bananas, lettuce or other produce from other growers. For example, as a result of flooding which affected some of our owned farms in 2008 and 2009, we incurred approximately $33 million of higher costs, including logistics costs, related to rehabilitating the farms and procuring replacement fruit from other sources (to the extent it was available). Another example is iceberg lettuce in the Yuma, Arizona region being affected in the first several weeks of 2011 by Sclerotinia, a disease that causes outer leaves of the iceberg lettuce head to wilt, reducing the harvest and increasing costs to secure sufficient supply of iceberg lettuce meeting our food safety standards to fulfill our sales volume commitments. From time to time, we have experienced shipping interruptions, port damage and changes in shipping routes as a result of weather-related disruptions. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption, an extended interruption in our ability to ship and distribute our products could have a material adverse effect on us. Competitors and industry participants may be affected differently by weather-related events based on the location of their production and supply. Our geographic diversity in banana production and sourcing locations increases the risk that we could be exposed to weather or crop-related events that may affect our operations at any given time, but lessens the risk that any single event would have a material adverse effect on our operations. If adverse conditions are widespread in the industry, they may restrict supplies and lead to an increase in prices for produce needed to meet obligations to customers, particularly in North America, where our typical fixed-price per box contract structures can make it difficult to recover these higher costs. 13 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to numerous risks, including the potential imposition of fines or other penalties, which could be substantial, in connection with certain ongoing matters. We have international operations in countries throughout the world, including in Central America, Europe, the Middle East, China and Africa. These activities are subject to risks inherent in operating in those countries, including government regulation, political and economic stability, currency restrictions, fluctuations and other restraints, import and export restrictions, burdensome taxes, risks of expropriation, threats to employees, political instability, terrorist activities, including extortion, and risks of U.S. and foreign governmental regulation and action in relation to these operations. Under certain circumstances, we (i) might need to curtail, cease or alter our activities in a particular region or country, (ii) might not be able to establish or expand operations in certain countries, and (iii) might be subject to fines or other penalties. For example, for a brief time in 2010, Iran suspended the issuance of import licenses for bananas; although the importers in Iran to whom we sell had sufficient licenses that our imports into Iran were not affected, this type of import and export control could significantly affect our ability to market bananas in, or export bananas from, certain countries. Our ability to deal with these issues may be affected by U.S. or other applicable law. For example, trade restrictions applicable to Iran also require us to obtain licenses from the U. S. government for sales there; these sales are able to be licensed because the products we sell are food staples and the specific parties involved in the sales are cleared by the U.S. government. As discussed in greater detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Exhibit 13, in December 2009, we received a Statement of Objections (“SO”) from the European Commission (“EC”) in relation to certain past activities alleged to have occurred in southern Europe. In the SO, the EC also expressed a preliminary view questioning the granting of immunity or leniency with respect to the matters set forth in the SO. While we continue to believe that we should be entitled to immunity and, in accordance with customary procedures, intend to respond to the SO, both in writing and at a hearing to be held, we can give no assurance as to the position that the EC will ultimately take in this matter. If the EC proceeds with a decision in this case and takes the position in any such decision that we are not entitled to immunity, then the EC can seek to impose fines on us, which, if imposed, could be substantial. Under its existing fining guidelines, the EC has significant discretion in determining the amount of any fine, subject to a maximum amount equal to 10% of a company’s worldwide revenue attributable to all of its products for the fiscal year prior to the year in which the fine is imposed. As such, if the EC were to impose a fine, it is possible that the imposition of such a fine could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, depending on the size of any such fine. A decision regarding the matters referenced in the SO, however, will not be taken by the EC until the close of the administrative procedure. In addition, we are currently involved in legal proceedings and investigations, described in more detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Exhibit 13, and under “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings”, involving, among other things, (i) a $25 million financial sanction contained in a plea agreement between us and the U.S. Department of Justice relating to payments made by our former banana-producing subsidiary in Colombia to a paramilitary group in that country which had been designated under U.S. law as a foreign terrorist organization, (ii) additional litigation and investigations relating to the Colombian payments, and (iii) customs proceedings in Italy. In connection with the 2006 plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, we agreed that, during a five-year probationary period, we would not commit any federal, state or local crimes. Accordingly, the commission of any illegal acts in the future could also give rise to liabilities under the plea agreement. Additionally, based on Italian procedural requirements of some of the Italian customs proceedings, we are currently required to make payments on an installment basis as a result of unfavorable rulings that are being appealed. Although these funds will be returned to us with interest if we ultimately prevail on appeal, the level of installment payments could increase significantly if similar unfavorable rulings are received in other cases, and the requirement to pay is not stayed or suspended. Regardless of the outcomes of these matters, we will incur legal and other fees to defend ourselves in all of these proceedings, which in aggregate may have a significant effect on our consolidated financial statements. As described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations– Operations – Banana Segment, included in Exhibit 13, there are pending negotiations of free trade area agreements (“FTAs”) between the EU and certain Latin American countries. There is no way of yet knowing what banana measures will finally be approved in these FTAs, when or whether the FTAs will be implemented and what, if any, effect they will have on our operations. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial results. Our international operations involve a variety of currencies, with our most significant exposure being to the euro. Both sales and local selling and transportation costs in our core European markets are in euros and other major European currencies. We also have significant operations in Latin America that result in costs in those local currencies; however, our banana and other produce purchase contracts are typically in U.S. dollars. Because produce purchase contracts are typically denominated in U.S. dollars, and produce in Europe and the Middle East typically is sold on the basis of weekly price quotes, local selling prices fluctuate partially as a result of currency exchange fluctuations. There can be no assurance that we can increase our local pricing to offset any unfavorable currency exchange fluctuations, such as the euro weakening against the U.S. dollar. We reduce currency exchange risk from sales originating in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by exchanging local currencies for dollars promptly upon receipt. We may further reduce our currency exposure for these sales by purchasing hedging instruments to hedge the dollar value of our estimated net euro cash flow exposure up to 18 months into the future if we believe the cost-benefit is favorable. However, hedging activities cannot eliminate any long-term risk of currency exposure, and while we enter into hedging transactions only with highly-rated financial institutions, there can be no assurance that these institutions will be able to honor their contractual commitments if there were a major disruption in the financial markets. Our operations and products are regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations and products are subject to inspections by environmental, food safety, health and customs authorities and to numerous governmental regulations, including those relating to the use and disposal of agrichemicals, the documentation of food shipments, the traceability of food products, and labeling of our products for consumers, all of which involve compliance costs. Changes in regulations or laws in the past have required, and in the future may require, operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. For example, the United States has recently enacted a new food safety law, the Food Safety Modernization Act (the “Act”). Although we believe that our food safety standards exceed those prescribed by the Act, implementing regulations have not yet been issued and may require us to make changes to our processes and procedures that could require us to incur unanticipated costs. If violations occur, regulators can impose fines, penalties and other sanctions. In some circumstances, we may decide or be required to recall a product if we or regulators believe it poses a potential risk. For example, we had three separate occasions in 2010 where we voluntarily recalled certain lettuce products, as a precaution, although none of the recalls arose from or resulted in any human injury. Although we maintain insurance to cover certain recall losses, this insurance does not cover all events and, even when an event is covered, our retention or deductible may be significant. The costs of these modifications and improvements and of any fines, penalties and recalls could be substantial. We maintain extremely high food safety standards and although we continue to invest in food safety improvements, no precaution can completely eliminate food safety risks from fresh produce. We are making significant investments to complete the conversion of all of our facilities to use our new FreshRinse™ technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement this process in all of our facilities timely and effectively, that we will be able to market our products using this technology at prices that will cover the costs of the investment, that the food safety benefits will be realized and recognized when implemented commercially, or that we will be able to successfully license the technology on commercially agreeable terms to other industry participants and in other industries. We can be adversely affected by actions of regulators or if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, even if our products are not implicated. As a result, we may also elect or be required to incur additional costs aimed at increasing consumer confidence in the safety of our products. 15 Table of Contents Our worldwide operations are subject to numerous other laws and governmental regulations, including laws regarding matters such as bribery and improper payments, regulation of competition, and labor and employment. There is also a risk that legal or regulatory requirements will be changed or that administrative and enforcement policies will change. We believe we are substantially in compliance with applicable regulations. However, actions by regulators in the past have required, and in the future may require, operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. In addition, if violations occur, regulators can impose fines, penalties and other sanctions. The costs of these modifications, improvements, fines and penalties could be substantial. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to private lawsuits alleging that our operations caused personal injury or property damage. Our level of indebtedness and the financial covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy or to react to changes in our business, and we may be limited in our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. Even though we have reduced our debt in the past four years, our level of indebtedness continues to be significant; as of December 31, 2010, we had $699 million principal amount of debt outstanding. Most of our indebtedness is issued under debt agreements that (1) require continuing compliance with financial maintenance and other covenants and (2) limit our ability to borrow additional funds due to both limits under our financial covenants and the amount that others may be willing to lend us. Our ability to comply with these provisions will be affected by our operating results and cash flow, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments and we were unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or if we had a change of control or ratings decline, the holders of the affected debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt, as well as other debt with cross-default provisions, to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities or avoid the loss of affected leases and other contracts. Certain leasing and other contractual arrangements also could be affected. We have low debt service obligations until 2014 and our operations have generated significant positive cash flow in recent years, but if our cash flow were to significantly decline for any reason including those beyond our control, it might: (1) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; (2) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; (3) limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments or to introduce new products or services; (4) limit our ability to make capital expenditures; and (5) place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business; establishment of new outsourcing relationships, and new company operations and offices, may involve risks as new organizations become familiar with their responsibilities. We rely on independent growers to produce a significant amount of our bananas and all of our lettuce and other produce. For ocean transportation of fresh produce from Central and South America, we rely on third party shippers, who are also responsible for maintaining the ships to avoid mechanical breakdowns and repairing any damage to them. We enter into short-term contracts with third parties to provide ground transportation, customs clearance, production of some of our value-added snacks and a variety of administrative services. For example, we have various arrangements with third parties to provide payroll processing for all North American employees and to perform transaction processing, accounts payable, and other “back office” operations for most worldwide operations. Although our arrangements with third parties may lower operating costs, provide expertise that might not be available among company employees and free up capital resources for other purposes, they reduce our direct control over the applicable production, distribution and some administrative activities; in addition, they could increase the time and effort we spend on maintaining our financial controls. New service providers may require time to fully understand certain aspects of our business needs and service requirements. Some third party providers have operations in developing countries where there are geopolitical uncertainties that may also affect us as a result of these arrangements. 16 Table of Contents We may also be affected by trends in our service providers’ industries, such as consolidation, regulation or changing business models. For example, there is a macro trend in the shipping industry towards containerized shipping and away from refrigerated cargo ships, both of which have different cost structures and infrastructure requirements. Such changes could require us to also adapt our business strategies or to seek alternate third party providers. There also can be no assurance that our third party providers will continue to provide the level of services we require, will continue to perform their obligations in a timely manner and will partner creatively with us in the future as our business and operational needs evolve. The cost efficiencies we seek may not be realized, and inefficiencies or quality control issues could affect our relationships with customers or other suppliers of goods and services. If our ability or our joint venture partners’ ability to bring products to market or service customer accounts were adversely affected, our reputation and business could suffer. Labor issues can increase our costs or disrupt our operations; pressure to increase union representation could adversely affect our operations; and changes in immigration laws could impact the availability of produce purchased from third-party suppliers. Most of our employees working in Central America are covered by labor contracts. Contracts covering approximately 4,000 employees will expire during 2011 and/or are currently under negotiation. Under applicable laws, employees are required to continue working under the terms of the expired contract. Approximately one-half of our Fresh Express employees, all of whom work in the United States, are covered by labor contracts; one of these contracts expires by the end of 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate our labor contracts on commercially reasonable terms as they expire or that we will be able to pass on increased costs to our customers. We are exposed to the risks of strikes or other labor-related actions in both our owned operations and those of independent growers or service providers supplying us. Labor stoppages and strikes may result in increased costs and, in the case of agricultural production, decreased crop quality. When prolonged strikes or other labor actions occur in agricultural production, growing crops may be significantly damaged or rendered un-harvestable as a result of the disruption of irrigation, disease and pest control and other agricultural practices. In addition, our non-union workforce, particularly in our salads and healthy snacks business in the U.S., has been subject to union organization efforts from time to time, and we could be subject to future unionization efforts. While we respect freedom of association, increased unionization of our workforce could lead to increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility. We purchase lettuce and other salad ingredients from many third parties that grow these products in the United States. The personnel engaged for harvesting operations typically include significant numbers of immigrants who are authorized to work in the U.S. The availability and number of these workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in U.S. immigration laws. A scarcity of available personnel to harvest agricultural products in the U.S. could increase our costs for those products or could lead to product shortages. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims; claims or other events or rumors relating to the “Chiquita” or “Fresh Express” brands could significantly affect our business. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. While we believe we have implemented practices and procedures in our operations to promote high-quality and safe food products, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. In addition to bananas and value-added salads, our healthy snacking and bottled juice products and our fresh juice bars subject us to risks relating to food safety and product liability. Even as we improve our food safety practices, there can be no assurance that we will not have claims or events that will affect our reputation; no precaution can completely eliminate food safety risks from fresh produce. Although we maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be adequate, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others or they might exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. In addition, large retail customers often require us to indemnify them for claims made by consumers who have purchased our products, regardless of whether the claim arises from our handling of the product. 17 Table of Contents Consumers and institutions associate the “Chiquita” and “Fresh Express” trademarks and related brands with high-quality and safe food products, as well as responsible business practices, which are an integral part of our business. We have licensed the Chiquita brand to several third parties including our joint venture related sellers over whom we have limited control, and acts or omissions by these third parties can reflect on our products and our business. Any events, rumors or negative publicity regarding the quality and safety of our food products or our business practices, even if baseless or are the result of actions against others in our industry, may adversely affect the value of our brand names and the demand for our products. Future innovations, acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances may be costly, may not achieve their intended goals and may distract our management, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. Our ability to execute successfully through innovation, new products, acquisitions and geographic expansion will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, it may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business. The following risks, in particular, may be applicable: Risks relating to innovation: In the area of innovation, we must be able to develop new processes, products and enhance existing products that appeal to consumers and customers. Some products such as Gourmet Café salads, Chiquita to Go bananas and healthy snacking products may be sold through channels other than traditional grocery retail, including convenience stores. These customers may require different services and, in some cases, different supply chain management. We must be able to grow these products to scale and sustain them long enough for them to achieve profitability. This depends, in part, on the technological and creative skills of our personnel and on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in both proprietary technology and our brands. We may not be successful in the development, introduction, marketing and sourcing of new products, or innovations to existing products, that satisfy customer needs, achieve market acceptance or generate satisfactory financial returns. An example is our FreshRinse innovation, described above. Risks relating to acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances: We may not identify suitable acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or complete them on terms that are satisfactory to us. If completed, we may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired company’s personnel, assets, management systems and technology. The benefits expected from an acquisition may not materialize and could be adversely affected by numerous factors, such as regulatory developments, industry events, general economic conditions, increased competition and the loss of existing key personnel or customers. We may not have control over decisions made by a strategic alliance partner, and it could be difficult for us to exit or restructure an alliance if we desire to do so. Where we do have strategic alliances, such as Danone Chiquita Fruits SAS, that is a joint venture between Danone and us to produce and market Chiquita-branded fruit smoothies in Europe, we work with our partners to align our business objectives, and any inability to do so may negatively affect the profitability of the joint venture or the Chiquita brand. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet; a substantial impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely affect our financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $741 million of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks on our balance sheet, the value of which depend on a variety of factors, including the success of our business, earnings growth and market conditions. Accounting standards require us to review goodwill and trademarks at least annually for impairment, and more frequently if impairment indicators are present. We recorded an impairment charge in 2008 relating to goodwill at Fresh Express based on changes in the industry and our operating results. There can be no assurance that future reviews of our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets will not result in additional impairment charges. Although it does not affect cash flow or our compliance under the company’s current credit facility, an impairment charge does decrease our net income and shareholders’ equity. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 