Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are factors that could affect our future performance: Risks Related to the Operation of our Business Our revenues are unpredictable because most of our generating facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, and our revenues and results of operations depend on market and competitive forces that are beyond our control. We sell capacity, energy and ancillary services from our generating facilities into competitive power markets on a short-term fixed price basis or through power sales agreements. Since mid-2007, our revenues from selling capacity have become a significant part of our overall revenues. Except for our Potrero generating facility, we are not guaranteed recovery of our costs or any return on our capital investments through mandated rates. The market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond our control, including the balance of supply and demand, our competitors’ marginal and long run costs of production, and the effect of market regulation. The price for which we can sell our output may fluctuate on a day-to-day basis and our ability to transact may be affected by the overall liquidity in the markets in which we operate. The markets in which we compete remain subject to one or more forms of regulation that limit our ability to raise prices during periods of shortage to the degree that would occur in a fully deregulated market and may thereby limit our ability to recover costs and an adequate return on our investment. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: — the failure of market regulators to develop and maintain efficient mechanisms to compensate merchant generators for the value of providing capacity needed to meet demand; — actions by regulators, ISOs, RTOs and other bodies that may artificially modify supply and demand levels and prevent capacity and energy prices from rising to the level necessary for recovery of our costs, our investment and an adequate return on our investment; — legal and political challenges to the rules used to calculate capacity payments in the markets in which we operate; — the ability of wholesale purchasers of power to make timely payment for energy or capacity, which may be adversely affected by factors such as retail rate caps, refusals by regulators to allow utilities to recover fully their wholesale power costs and investments through rates, catastrophic losses and losses from investments by utilities in unregulated businesses; — increases in prevailing market prices for fuel oil, coal, natural gas and emissions allowances that may not be reflected in prices we receive for sales of energy; — increases in electricity supply as a result of actions of our current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generating facilities or alternative energy sources that may be able to produce electricity less expensively than our generating facilities and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach our markets; — increases in credit standards, margin requirements, market volatility or other market conditions that could increase our obligations to post collateral beyond amounts that are expected, including additional collateral costs associated with OTC hedging activities as a result of proposed OTC regulation; — decreases in energy consumption resulting from demand-side management programs such as automated demand response, which may alter the amount and timing of consumer energy use; — the competitive advantages of certain competitors, including continued operation of older power plants in strategic locations after recovery of historic capital costs from ratepayers; — existing or future regulation of our markets by the FERC, ISOs and RTOs, including any price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the price volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; 29 Table of Contents — regulatory policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of our customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for capacity in particular; — changes in the rate of growth in electricity usage as a result of such factors as national and regional economic conditions and implementation of conservation programs; — seasonal variations in energy and natural gas prices, and capacity payments; and — seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular abnormal weather conditions. In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric energy can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced at the time of use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to substantial price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Because of the current market design in California, our existing generating facilities may have a limited life unless we make significant capital expenditures to increase their commercial and environmental performance. Our existing generating facilities in California depend almost entirely on payments in support of system reliability. The energy market, as currently constituted, will not justify the capital expenditures necessary to repower or reconstruct our facilities to make them commercially viable in a merchant market. If a commercially reasonable capacity market were to be instituted by the CAISO or we could obtain a contract with a creditworthy buyer, it is possible that we could justify investing the necessary capital to repower or reconstruct our facilities. Absent that, our existing generating facilities will be commercially viable only as long as they are necessary for reliability. As discussed further in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report, we plan to shut down the Contra Costa generating facility in April 2013 and the Potrero generating facility when it is no longer needed for reliability as determined by the CAISO, which is currently anticipated to be by the end of 2010. Our Mirant Marsh Landing development project is subject to permitting, construction and financing risks and, if we are unsuccessful in addressing those risks, we may not recover our investment in the project or our return on the project may be lower than expected. In 2009, Mirant Marsh Landing entered into a ten-year PPA with PG&E for 760 MW of natural gas-fired peaking generation to be constructed adjacent to our Contra Costa generating facility near Antioch, California. Under the terms of the PPA, Mirant Marsh Landing bears the risks of (i) obtaining the permits necessary for construction and operation of the generating facility, (ii) securing the necessary project financing for construction of the generating facility, and (iii) completing the construction of the generating facility by May 2013. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy and is subject to significant uncertainties. Mirant Marsh Landing has posted letters of credit of approximately $12 million to secure its obligations under the PPA, which amount will increase to approximately $80 million upon the CPUC approval of the PPA. Although we have attempted to minimize the financial risks in the development of the Marsh Landing generating facility, in the event that we are unsuccessful in securing the required permits and financing necessary to begin construction of the facility, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of the project. If we do not complete the construction of the Marsh Landing generating facility by May 2013, our return on the project may be lower than expected. We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and volatility and interruption in fuel supply because our generating facilities generally do not have long-term agreements for the supply of natural gas, coal and oil. Although we attempt to purchase fuel based on our expected fuel requirements, we still face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility. Our cost of fuel may not reflect changes in energy and fuel prices in part because we must pre-purchase inventories of coal and oil for reliability and dispatch requirements, and thus the price of fuel may have been determined at an earlier date than the price of energy generated from it. The price we can obtain from the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel costs. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The volatility of fuel prices could adversely affect our financial results and operations. 30 Table of Contents We enter into contracts of varying terms to secure appropriate quantities of fuel that meet the varying specifications of our generating facilities. For our coal-fired generating facilities, we purchase most of our coal from a small number of strategic suppliers under contracts with terms of varying lengths, some of which extend to 2013. We have non-performance risk associated with our long-term coal agreements. There is risk that our coal suppliers may not provide the contractual quantities on the dates specified within the agreements or the deliveries may be carried over to future periods. If our coal suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, we may have to procure coal in the market to meet our needs, or power in the market to meet our obligations. In addition, a number of the coal suppliers do not currently have an investment grade credit rating and, accordingly, we may have limited recourse to collect damages in the event of default by a supplier. We seek to mitigate this risk through diversification of coal suppliers and through guarantees. Despite this, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in mitigating credit risk from coal suppliers. Non-performance or default risk by our coal suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For our oil-fired generating facilities, we typically purchase fuel from a limited number of suppliers under contracts with terms of varying lengths. If our oil suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, we may have to procure oil in the market to meet our needs, or power in the market to meet our obligations. Operation of our generating facilities involves risks that may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. The operation of our generating facilities involves various operating risks, including, but not limited to: — the output and efficiency levels at which those generating facilities perform; — interruptions in fuel supply and quality of available fuel; — disruptions in the delivery of electricity; — adverse zoning; — breakdowns or equipment failures (whether a result of age or otherwise); — violations of our permit requirements or changes in the terms of or revocation of permits; — releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; — ability to transport and dispose of coal ash at reasonable prices; — shortages of equipment or spare parts; — labor disputes; — operator errors; — curtailment of operations because of transmission constraints; — failures in the electricity transmission system which may cause large energy blackouts; — implementation of unproven technologies in connection with environmental improvements; and — catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar occurrences. A decrease in, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our facilities or an increase in the costs of operating such facilities could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations, including cash flows available to us to make payments on our debt or our other obligations. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal variations in demand and fuel prices. 31 Table of Contents Our generating facilities are located in a few geographic markets, resulting in concentrated exposure to the Mid-Atlantic market. Our generating facilities are located in California, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York and Virginia. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we earned a significant portion of our operating revenue and gross margin from the PJM market, where our Mid-Atlantic generating facilities are located. Having our generating facilities in a few geographic markets results in our concentrated exposure to those markets, especially PJM. Our income tax net operating loss carry forwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.7 billion of federal NOL carry forwards. Our ability to deduct the NOL carry forwards against future taxable income could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section (“§”) 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, at or near our recent stock price levels. In general, an ownership change would occur if certain shifts in ownership of the Company’s stock exceed 50 percentage points measured over a specified period of time. Given §382’s broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in the Company’s stock that is outside our control. On March 26, 2009, we adopted a stockholder rights plan (the “Stockholder Rights Plan”) to reduce the likelihood of such an unintended ownership change occurring. However, there can be no assurance that the Stockholder Rights Plan will prevent such an ownership change. Our inability to utilize NOL carry forwards could result in the payment of cash taxes above the amounts currently estimated for future periods and have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial position. Under the Stockholder Rights Plan, when a person or group has obtained beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of our common stock, or an existing holder with greater than 4.9% ownership acquires more shares representing at least an additional 0.2% of our common stock, there would be a triggering event causing potential significant dilution in the economic interest and voting power of such person or group. Such triggering event would also occur if an existing holder with greater than 4.9% ownership but less than 5.0% ownership acquires more shares that would result in such stockholder obtaining beneficial ownership of 5.0% or more of our common stock. The Board of Directors has the discretion to exempt an acquisition of common stock from the provisions of the Stockholder Rights Plan if it determines the acquisition will not jeopardize tax benefits or is otherwise in our best interests. On February 26, 2010, Mirant announced that the Board of Directors had extended the Stockholder Rights Plan and that the Company would submit the Stockholder Rights Plan to a stockholder vote at its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 6, 2010. As extended, this Stockholder Rights Plan is limited in life, and the rights expire upon the earliest of (1) the Board of Directors’ determination that the plan is no longer needed for the preservation of NOLs as a result of the implementation of legislative changes, or any other change; (2) February 25, 2020; or (3) certain other events described in the Stockholder Rights Plan. If the Stockholder Rights Plan is not approved by our stockholders prior to February 25, 2011, the Stockholder Rights Plan will terminate by its terms on that date, and we could experience an ownership change and thereby be limited in our ability to utilize NOL carry forwards. This could result in the payment of cash taxes above the amounts currently estimated for future periods and have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial position. We compete to sell energy, capacity and ancillary services in the wholesale power markets against some competitors that enjoy competitive advantages, including the ability to recover fixed costs through rate-base mechanisms and a lower cost of capital. Regulated utilities in the wholesale markets generally enjoy a lower cost of capital than we do and often are able to recover fixed costs through regulated retail rates, including, in many cases, the costs of generation, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generating facilities without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. The competitive advantages of such participants could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse effect on the revenues generated by our facilities. 32 Table of Contents The expected decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations of certain of our generating facilities may negatively affect our cash flows. Some of our generating facilities and related properties are subject to decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations that may require material expenditures. Furthermore, laws and regulations may change to impose material additional decommissioning and remediation obligations on us in the future. If we are required to make material expenditures to decommission or remediate one or more of our facilities, such obligations will affect our cash flows and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our obligations. Changes in technology may significantly affect our generating business by making our generating facilities less competitive. We generate electricity using fossil fuels at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in those technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, future wars or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. As power generators, we face heightened risk of an act of terrorism, either a direct act against one of our generating facilities or an inability to operate as a result of systemic damage resulting from an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport our power. Further, we rely on information technology networks and systems to operate our generating facilities, engage in asset management activities, and process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this information technology infrastructure, including cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism, could lead to system disruptions, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If such an attack or security breach were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, such an attack could affect our ability to service our indebtedness, our ability to raise capital and our future growth opportunities. Our operations are subject to hazards customary to the power generating industry. We may not have adequate insurance to cover all of these hazards. Our operations are subject to many hazards associated with the power generating industry, which may expose us to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquake, flood, storm surge, lightning, hurricane and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations. These hazards can cause significant injury to personnel or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate, but we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and our financial condition. 33 Table of Contents We are currently involved in significant litigation that, if decided adversely to us, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We are currently involved in various litigation matters which are described in more detail in this Form 10-K. We intend to defend vigorously against those claims that we are unable to settle, but the results of this litigation cannot be determined. Adverse outcomes for us in this litigation could require significant expenditures by us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Risks Related to Economic and Financial Capital Market Conditions Maintaining sufficient liquidity in our business for maintenance and operating expenditures, capital expenditures and collateral is crucial in order to mitigate the risk of future financial distress to us. Accordingly, we maintain a revolving credit facility to manage our expected liquidity needs and contingencies. If the lenders under such facility were unable to perform, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. As a result, we are exposed to systemic risk of the financial markets and institutions and the risk of non-performance of the individual lenders under our revolving credit facility. Maintaining sufficient liquidity in our business for maintenance and operating expenditures, capital expenditures and collateral is crucial in order to mitigate the risk of future financial distress to us. Accordingly, we maintain a revolving credit facility to manage our expected liquidity needs and contingencies as described in more detail in this Form 10-K. If the lenders under such facility were unable to perform it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. For example, in October 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and a lender under the senior secured revolving credit facility of our subsidiary, Mirant North America, filed for bankruptcy. As a result of the Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. bankruptcy, the total availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility has effectively decreased from $800 million to $755 million. The $755 million includes the $50 million commitment under such facility by CIT Capital USA Inc., whose corporate parent, CIT Group Inc., filed for and emerged from bankruptcy reorganization on November 1, 2009 and December 10, 2009, respectively. Although we do not expect that the Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. and CIT Group bankruptcies will have a material adverse effect on Mirant, a credit crisis could negatively affect availability under the Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility if other lenders under such facility are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. Absent significant non-performance of lenders under the existing Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility, we think that we have sufficient liquidity for future operations (including potential working capital requirements) and capital expenditures as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” However, in the event of significant non-performance of lenders under the existing Mirant North America senior secured revolving credit facility, or in the event that financial institutions are unwilling or unable to renew our existing revolving credit facility or enter into new revolving credit facilities, our ability to hedge our assets or engage in proprietary trading could be impaired. Global financial institutions have been active participants in the energy and commodity markets and we hedge economically a substantial portion of our Mid-Atlantic coal-fired baseload generation with such parties. As such financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations in response to the recent financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect on our ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. In recent years, global financial institutions have been active participants in the energy and commodity markets. We hedge economically a substantial portion of our Mid-Atlantic coal-fired baseload generation through OTC transactions. A significant portion of our hedges are financial swap transactions between Mirant Mid-Atlantic and financial counterparties that are senior unsecured obligations of such parties and do not require either party to post cash collateral, either for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. As such financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital 34 Table of Contents constraints and regulations in response to the recent financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect on our ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. Greater regulation of energy contracts, including the regulation of OTC derivatives, could materially affect our ability to hedge economically our generation by reducing liquidity in the energy and commodity markets and, if we are required to clear such transactions on exchanges, by significantly increasing the collateral costs associated with such activities. In response to the global financial crisis, legislation has been proposed in Congress to increase the regulation of transactions involving OTC derivatives. The proposed legislation provides that standardized swap transactions between dealers and large market participants would have to be cleared and must be traded on an exchange or electronic platform. Although the proposed legislation provides exclusions from the clearing and certain other requirements for market participants, such as Mirant, which utilize OTC derivatives to hedge commercial risks, such exclusions are the focus of debate and may not ultimately be part of any final legislation. In addition to the proposed legislation, the CFTC has proposed designation of certain electricity contracts as significant price discovery contracts (“SPDCs”), including contracts that we trade on the Intercontinental Exchange based on CAISO and PJM West Hub locational marginal pricing. SPDC designation would subject these contracts to new more stringent requirements and could set a precedent for other contracts. Further, the CFTC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposed to adopt all-months-combined, single (non-spot) month and spot-month position limits for exchange-listed natural gas, crude oil, heating oil and gasoline futures and options contracts. We continue to monitor the rulemaking proceeding, but do not think that the limits as proposed would have a material effect on our business. While we do not expect the current proposals in Congress and at the CFTC to have a material adverse effect on our business, a continuation of the trend of greater regulation of energy contracts, including more restrictive regulation of OTC derivative contracts, could materially affect our ability to hedge economically our generation by reducing liquidity in the energy and commodity markets and, if we are required to clear such transactions on exchanges, by significantly increasing the collateral costs associated with such activities. We are exposed to credit risk resulting from a loss that may occur from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement with us, particularly in connection with our non-collateralized power hedges entered into by Mirant Mid-Atlantic with financial institutions. We are exposed to credit risk resulting from the possibility that a loss may occur from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement with us, particularly in connection with our non-collateralized power hedges entered into by Mirant Mid-Atlantic with our major trading partners, which represent 65% of our net notional position at December 31, 2009. Such hedges are senior unsecured obligations of Mirant Mid-Atlantic and the counterparties, and do not require either party to post cash collateral for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. Deterioration in the financial condition of our counterparties and any resulting failure to pay amounts owed to us or to perform obligations or services owed to us beyond collateral posted could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Changes in commodity prices may negatively affect our financial results by increasing the cost of producing power or lowering the price at which we are able to sell our power. Our generating business is subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, and these commodity prices are influenced by many factors outside our control, including weather, market liquidity, transmission and transportation inefficiencies, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, demand for energy commodities, production of natural gas, coal and crude oil, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, and federal, state and environmental regulation and legislation. In addition, significant 35 Table of Contents fluctuations in the price of natural gas may cause significant fluctuations in the price of electricity. Significant fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power and decreasing the amounts we receive from the sale of power. Our use of derivative financial instruments in our asset management activities will not fully protect us from fluctuations in commodity prices and our risk management policy cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. We engage in asset management activities related to sales of electricity and purchases of fuel. The income and losses from these activities are recorded as operating revenues and fuel costs. We may use forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments to manage market risk and exposure to volatility in prices of electricity, coal, natural gas, emissions and oil. We cannot provide assurance that these strategies will be successful in managing our price risks, or that they will not result in net losses to us as a result of future volatility in electricity, fuel and emissions markets. Actual power prices and fuel costs may differ from our expectations. Our asset management activities include natural gas derivative financial instruments that we use to hedge power prices for our baseload generation. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between power and natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. If those prices are not sufficiently correlated, our financial results and financial position could be adversely affected. Additionally, we expect to have an open position in the market, within our established guidelines, resulting from the management of our portfolio. To the extent open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can affect our financial results and financial position, either favorably or unfavorably. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not always work as planned. However, we have designed a system of internal controls to prevent and/or detect unauthorized hedging and related activities, including our risk management policy. If any of our employees were able to engage in unauthorized hedging and related activities, it could result in significant penalties and financial losses. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict the outcome that risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. Although management devotes considerable attention to these issues, their outcome is uncertain. Our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities may increase the volatility of our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in asset management activities to hedge economically our exposure to market risk with respect to: (1) electricity sales from our generating facilities; (2) fuel used by those facilities; and (3) emissions allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative financial instruments. We also use derivative financial instruments with respect to our limited proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities, through which we attempt to achieve incremental returns by transacting where we have specific market expertise. Derivatives from our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value pursuant to the accounting guidance for derivative financial instruments. None of our derivatives recorded at fair value is designated as a hedge under this guidance and changes in their fair values currently are recognized in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, our financial results—including gross margin, operating income and balance sheet ratios—will, at times, be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily because of changes in forward electricity and fuel prices. For a more detailed discussion of the accounting treatment of our asset management, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Laws Our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements, including future changes to them. Our business is subject to extensive environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities, which, among other things, restrict the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and soil, and also govern the use of water from adjacent waterways. Such laws and regulations frequently require us to obtain permits and remain in continuous compliance with the conditions established by those permits. To comply with these legal requirements and the terms of our permits, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emissions allowances. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, injunctive relief and the imposition of liens or fines. We may be required to shut down facilities (including ash sites) if we are unable to comply with the requirements, or if we determine the expenditures required to comply are uneconomic. From time to time, we may not be able to obtain necessary environmental regulatory approvals. Such approvals could be delayed or subject to onerous conditions. If there is a delay in obtaining environmental regulatory approval or if onerous conditions are imposed, the operation of our generating facilities or ash sites or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. Such delays or onerous conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. In addition, environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are generally becoming more stringent, which may require us to make additional facility upgrades or restrict our operations. Increased public concern and growing political pressure related to global warming have resulted in significant increases in the regulation of greenhouse gases, including CO2, at the state level. Future local, state and federal regulation of greenhouse gases is likely to create substantial environmental costs for us in the form of taxes or purchases of emissions allowances and/or new equipment. Many of the states where we own generating facilities, including California, Maryland, Massachusetts and New York, have recently committed, or expressed an intent to commit, to mandatory reductions in statewide CO2 emissions through a regional cap-and-trade program. Maryland, Massachusetts and New York have already joined the RGGI, which required all allowances to be purchased initially through an auction process, the first of which took place in September 2008. Auctions, such as those mandated by the RGGI, may decrease the amount of available allowances and substantially increase emissions allowance prices. With respect to federal CO2 legislation, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill that would establish a cap-and-trade program for CO2 across multiple sectors, including the electric generating sector. In the House bill, the electric industry is granted a portion of allowances needed to comply with the program. The remaining allowances needed would have to be purchased through an auction process. The EPA has also begun the process of regulating greenhouse gases by finding that greenhouse gases emitted from vehicles endanger public health and welfare. Because our generating facilities emit CO2, regulations seeking to reduce emissions of CO2 and similar future laws may significantly increase our operating costs. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and comparable state laws, impose strict and, in many circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of remediating contamination. Some of our facilities have areas with known soil and/or groundwater contamination. Releases of hazardous substances at our generating facilities, or at locations where we dispose of (or in the past disposed of) hazardous substances and other waste, could require us to spend significant sums to remediate contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. The discovery of significant contamination at our generating facilities, at disposal sites we currently use or have used, or at other locations for which we may be liable, or the failure or inability of parties contractually responsible to us for contamination to respond when claims or obligations regarding such contamination arise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. 37 Table of Contents Our coal-fired generating units produce certain byproducts that involve extensive handling and disposal costs and are subject to government regulation. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of handling and disposing of these byproducts. Such costs, in turn, may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the coal combustion process, we produce significant quantities of ash at our coal-fired generating units that must be disposed of at sites permitted to handle ash. For most of our ash, we use our own ash management facilities, which are all dry landfills, in the Mid-Atlantic region to dispose of the ash; however, we expect that certain of these sites may reach full capacity in the next few years. As a result, we have developed a plan related to the disposition of ash, including developing new ash management facilities and preparing our ash for beneficial uses, but the costs associated with the plan could be material. The costs associated with purchasing new land and permitting the land to allow for ash disposal could be material, and the amount of time needed to permit the land could extend beyond the expected timeline. Additionally, costs associated with third-party ash handling and disposal are material and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. We also produce gypsum as a byproduct of the SO2 scrubbing process at our coal-fired generating facilities, which is sold to third parties for use in drywall production. Should our ability to sell such gypsum to third parties be restricted as a result of the lack of demand or otherwise, our gypsum disposal costs could rise materially. The EPA is reviewing whether byproducts such as ash and gypsum should be classified as a hazardous waste. If these byproducts were to be classified as a hazardous waste, the cost of disposing of these byproducts would increase materially and limit our ability to recycle them for beneficial use. Our business is subject to complex government regulations. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of operating our generating facilities or our ability to operate our facilities. Such costs, in turn, may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to regulation by the FERC regarding the rates, terms and conditions of wholesale sales of electric capacity, energy and ancillary services and other matters, including mergers and acquisitions, the disposition of facilities under the FERC’s jurisdiction and the issuance of securities, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of our generating facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, the FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generating business. Even when market-based rate authority has been granted, the FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, when it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires such potential market power to be mitigated. In addition to direct regulation by the FERC, most of our facilities are subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various ISOs and RTOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell and the price we receive for our energy, capacity and ancillary services. To conduct our business, we must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities. These licenses, permits and approvals can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and 38 Table of Contents approvals for these facilities. If we cannot comply with all applicable regulations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether the federal or state legislatures will adopt legislation relating to the restructuring of the energy industry. There are proposals in many jurisdictions that would either roll back or advance the movement toward competitive markets for the supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail levels. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could affect our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Level of Indebtedness Our consolidated indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting or refinancing our obligations. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated indebtedness was $2.631 billion. In addition, the present value of lease payments under the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases was approximately $1.0 billion (assuming a 10% discount rate) and the termination value of the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases was $1.4 billion. Our leverage and obligations under the leveraged leases could have important consequences, including the following: (1) it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; (2) a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of rent and principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; (3) the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy or refinance our financial obligations; (4) certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; (5) it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt and are not burdened by such obligations and restrictions; and (6) we may be more vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out capital expenditures that are important to our long-term growth or necessary to comply with environmental regulations. Mirant Corporation and its subsidiaries that are holding companies, including Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, may not have access to sufficient cash to meet their obligations if their subsidiaries, in particular, Mirant Mid-Atlantic, are unable to make distributions. We and certain of our subsidiaries, including Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, are holding companies and, as a result, we are dependent upon dividends, distributions and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations. The ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and distributions is restricted under the terms of their debt or other agreements. In particular, a significant portion of cash from our operations is generated by the power generating facilities of Mirant Mid-Atlantic. Under the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases, Mirant Mid-Atlantic is subject to a covenant that restricts its right to make distributions to its immediate parent, Mirant North America. In turn, Mirant North America is subject to covenants that restrict its ability to make distributions to its parent, Mirant Americas Generation. The ability of Mirant North America and Mirant Mid-Atlantic to satisfy the criteria set forth in their respective debt covenants in the future could be impaired by factors which negatively affect their financial performance, including interruptions in operations or curtailments of operations to comply with environmental restrictions, significant capital and other expenditures, and adverse conditions in the power and fuel markets. Further, the Mirant North America senior notes and senior secured credit facilities include financial covenants that exclude from the calculation the financial results of any subsidiary that is unable to make 39 Table of Contents distributions or dividends at the time of such calculation. Thus, the inability of Mirant Mid-Atlantic to make distributions to Mirant North America under the leveraged lease transaction would have a material adverse effect on the calculation of the financial covenants under the senior notes and senior secured credit facilities of Mirant North America, including the leverage and interest coverage maintenance covenants under its senior credit facility. Further, we anticipate that the Mirant Marsh Landing generating facility will be financed pursuant to a project/construction financing and, accordingly, will be restricted in its ability to make distributions to Mirant Corporation. The obligations of Mirant Corporation and its holding company subsidiaries, including the indebtedness of Mirant Americas Generation and Mirant North America, are effectively subordinated to the obligations or indebtedness of their respective subsidiaries, including the Mirant Mid-Atlantic leveraged leases. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of restrictions on the ability of Mirant North America to make distributions to its parent, Mirant Americas Generation. We may be unable to generate sufficient liquidity to service our debt and to post required amounts of cash collateral necessary to hedge market risk effectively. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt depends on our future operating performance. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance. There can be no assurance that the terms of our debt will allow these alternative measures, that the financial markets will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. We seek to manage the risks associated with the volatility in the price at which we sell power produced by our generating facilities and in the prices of fuel, emissions allowances and other inputs required to produce such power by entering into hedging transactions. These asset management activities may require us to post collateral either in the form of cash or letters of credit. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $84 million of posted cash collateral and $211 million of letters of credit outstanding primarily to support our asset management activities, debt service and rent reserve requirements and other commercial arrangements. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report for further information on our posted cash collateral and letters of credit. Although we seek to structure transactions in a way that reduces our potential liquidity needs for collateral, we may be unable to execute our hedging strategy successfully if we are unable to post the amount of collateral required to enter into and support hedging contracts. We are an active participant in energy exchange and clearing markets. These markets require a per contract initial margin to be posted, regardless of the credit quality of the participant. The initial margins are determined by the exchanges through the use of proprietary models that rely on a variety of inputs and factors, including market conditions. We have limited notice of any changes to the margin rates. Consequently, we are exposed to changes in the per unit margin rates required by the exchanges and could be required to post additional collateral on short notice. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 Table of Contents 