Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks, some of which are set forth below to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock and our 2.625% convertible senior notes due April 1, 2017, or the Convertible Notes, could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to XTANDI ® (enzalutamide) capsules XTANDI ® (enzalutamide) capsules, our only approved product, has not been approved for sale anywhere outside the United States, and has been approved in the United States to treat patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, or mCRPC, who have previously received docetaxel-based chemotherapy, which we refer to as “post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients.” Our prospects are largely dependent on (a) successful commercialization of XTANDI in the United States to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, (b) obtaining regulatory approval of, and successfully commercializing, XTANDI outside the United States to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, and (c) obtaining regulatory approval of, and successfully commercializing, XTANDI both in and outside the United States to treat patients in other indications, such as in patients with mCRPC who have not yet received docetaxel, which we refer to as “pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients.” If we are unsuccessful in achieving any one or more of these critical business objectives, our ability to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability would be adversely affected and our business may be harmed or fail. XTANDI is our only approved product. On August 31, 2012, we obtained approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to market XTANDI to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients. This is the only regulatory approval for XTANDI we have received anywhere in the world. Unless we and our collaboration partner, Astellas Pharma, Inc., or Astellas, can obtain regulatory approval of, and successfully commercialize, XTANDI to treat other patient populations within the United States, or any patient populations 17 Table of Contents outside the United States, we would be solely dependent on U.S. sales of XTANDI to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients to generate revenue and fund our operations. In July 2012, the Marketing Authorisation Application, or MAA, for XTANDI submitted by Astellas to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients was accepted for review by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA. We do not yet know when or if that MAA will be approved, or whether any approval would be subject to conditions that could negatively impact or effectively prevent successful commercialization of XTANDI in Europe to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients. Our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial is designed to generate data supporting global regulatory applications for XTANDI to treat pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients. We do not yet know whether the results of the PREVAIL trial will be positive or whether those results, even if positive, will be sufficiently robust to obtain regulatory approvals for XTANDI in any other indication in the United States or anywhere else in the world. We believe that the commercial opportunity represented by pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients is substantially larger than that represented by post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, and thus that any failure to successfully obtain approval and commercialize XTANDI for the treatment of pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients would have a particularly negative impact on our business and future prospects. The commercialization of XTANDI for the treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients (should it be approved for that population), or any other patient populations for which XTANDI may subsequently be approved may not be successful for a number of reasons, including: • we and our collaboration partner, Astellas, may not be able to establish or demonstrate in the medical community the safety and efficacy of XTANDI and its potential advantages over and side effects compared to competing therapeutics and products currently in clinical development for each applicable patient population; • our limited experience in marketing XTANDI for any patient population; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and private payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators; • the relative price of XTANDI as compared to alternative treatment options; • changes or increases in regulatory restrictions; • changes to the label for XTANDI that further restrict how we and Astellas market XTANDI, including as a result of data collected from the safety study in patients at high risk for seizure that the FDA required us to undertake as a post-marketing requirement or from any other ongoing or future studies; • we and Astellas may not have adequate financial or other resources to successfully commercialize XTANDI; and • we and Astellas may not be able to obtain adequate commercial supplies of XTANDI to meet demand or at an acceptable cost. If the commercialization of XTANDI is unsuccessful, our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability would be adversely affected and our business could fail. XTANDI may not gain market acceptance and may fail to generate significant revenue. The commercial success of XTANDI will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. The degree of market acceptance of any drug depends on a number of factors, such as: • its demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; • its superior efficacy as compared to alternate treatments and its side effect profile; 18 Table of Contents • its cost effectiveness and the availability of insurance or other third-party reimbursement; • its convenience and ease of administration; • the timing of its market entry relative to competing treatments; • the extent and success of marketing and sales efforts; and • the product labeling or package insert required by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community and third-party payors may have adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Although certain of our employees have commercialization experience, as a company we currently have only limited commercial capabilities. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to serve in our sales and marketing organization to effectively support our commercialization activities. If we are not successful in commercializing XTANDI, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant losses. XTANDI will face significant competition from other approved products and other products in development. The biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive in general. Furthermore, our business strategy is to target large unmet medical needs, and those markets are even more highly competitive. Companies are currently marketing, or expected to be marketing in the near future, products that compete directly with XTANDI, including some of the world’s largest and most experienced pharmaceutical companies, such as Johnson & Johnson and sanofi. There are also multiple additional small molecule and recombinant protein candidates in development targeting CRPC, including compounds already in Phase 3 clinical trails. Products and compounds are also being developed to compete with XTANDI in upstream populations for which we, and our partner Astellas, are or are considering developing XTANDI. We expect to compete against multiple drugs that currently exist, as well as additional drugs currently in development, to treat post-chemotherapy mCRPC and pre-chemotherapy mCRPC. Competitive drugs already have acquired substantial shares in these markets, which may make it more difficult for us to compete successfully in these markets notwithstanding positive results from our clinical trials. In addition, we expect to compete against multiple drugs currently being developed to treat pre-chemotherapy mCRPC and earlier prostate cancer disease states, as well as drugs that operate similarly to XTANDI. Bases upon which XTANDI would have to compete successfully include efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness. We cannot guarantee that we, Astellas or any of our potential future partners will be able to compete successfully in the context of any of these factors. Any future product candidates that we may subsequently acquire will face similar competitive pressures. If we or our partners cannot compete successfully on any of the bases described above, our business will not succeed. XTANDI may not be commercially successful if not widely-covered and appropriately reimbursed by third-party payors, and we are dependent upon Astellas for the execution of third-party payor access and reimbursement strategies for XTANDI. Third-party payors, including public insurers such as Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers, pay for a large share of health care products and services consumed in the United States. In Europe, Canada and other major international markets, third-party payors also pay for a significant portion of health care products and services and many of those countries have nationalized health care systems in which the government pays for all such products and services and must approve product pricing. Our ability to successfully commercialize XTANDI for its approved indication will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for XTANDI is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement of newly approved prescription drug products. In addition, even if third-party payors ultimately elect to cover and reimburse for XTANDI, most payors will not reimburse 100% of the cost, but rather require patients to pay a portion of the cost through a co-payment. Thus, even if reimbursement is available, the percentage of drug cost required to be borne by the patients may make use of XTANDI financially difficult or impossible for certain patients, which would have a negative impact on sales of XTANDI. For example, in the United States there exists a coverage gap or “donut hole” in the Medicare Part D 19 Table of Contents coverage or prescription medications for participants, which renews annually each January 1st. While in the donut hole Medicare Part D participants, which includes many patients in XTANDI’s approved indication, may have to pay out of pocket a substantial portion of their prescription drug costs, which may discourage physicians from prescribing or patients for accessing XTANDI. It is increasingly difficult to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement levels from third-party payors, and we may be unable to achieve these objectives. Moreover, our commercial prospects would be further weakened if payors approved coverage for XTANDI only as second- or later-line treatments, or if they placed XTANDI in tiers requiring unacceptably high patient co-payments. Since launch, several third-party payors have approved coverage for XTANDI only after patient treatment on Zytiga plus prednisone. Failure to overturn these coverage decisions or stop additional such coverage decisions could materially harm our or our partner’s ability to successfully market XTANDI. Achieving coverage and acceptable reimbursement levels typically involves negotiating with individual payors and is a time-consuming and costly process. We are dependent upon Astellas for the achievement of such coverage and acceptable reimbursement, and negotiation with individual payors. Moreover, in March 2010, the President of the United States signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, PPACA, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The provisions of PPACA most relevant to the pharmaceutical industry include the following: • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, not including orphan drug sales; • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in PPACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any payment or “transfer of value” made or distributed to teaching hospitals, prescribers, and other healthcare providers and reporting any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations during the preceding calendar year, with data collection to be required beginning on August 1, 2013, annual reporting beginning on March 31, 2014, and publication by CMS on a searchable website beginning September 30, 2014; • expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and 20 Table of Contents • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of PPACA, excepting certain provisions, noted above, that would have required states to expand their Medicaid programs or risk losing all of the state’s Medicaid funding. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any further changes made to PPACA, whether in part or in its entirety. Moreover, other state and federal legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at reforming the health care system in the United States are periodically proposed, the effect of which, if enacted, could adversely impact our product sales and results of operations. Moreover, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 created, among other things, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, which triggered the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, beginning on March 1, in 2013. Further, President Obama’s proposed budget for 2013 and certain proposed legislation would require drug manufacturers to pay to the Medicare program new rebates for certain outpatient drugs covered under Medicare Part D. These proposals would allow the Medicare program to benefit from the same, relatively higher, rebates that Medicaid receives for brand name and generic drugs provided to beneficiaries who receive the low-income subsidies under the Medicare Part D program and “dual eligible” beneficiaries (i.e., those who are eligible for both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement spending reductions in government healthcare programs, e.g., Medicare or government controls over drug product pricing. We are currently unable to predict what additional legislation or regulations, if any, relating to the pharmaceutical industry or third-party payor coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect PPACA or any such additional legislation or regulation will or would have on our business. However, spending reductions in government healthcare programs or additional government controls over drug product pricing would likely negatively impact our business. In addition, we would face competition in such negotiations from other approved drugs against which we compete, which may include other approved drugs marketed by Astellas, and the marketers of such other drugs are likely to be significantly larger than us and therefore enjoy significantly more negotiating leverage with respect to the individual payors than we may have. We are dependent on Astellas and its contract manufacturers to manufacture clinical and commercial requirements of XTANDI, and we are dependent on Astellas and a limited number of specialty pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors in Astellas’ network to commercialize and distribute XTANDI, which could impact the sales of XTANDI. Under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, Astellas has the primary right and responsibility to manufacture and/or manage the supply of XTANDI for clinical trials and all commercial requirements. Astellas intends to fulfill these obligations largely through third-party contract manufacturers. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on Astellas and its contract manufacturers to supply XTANDI. Astellas and its contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, and shortage of qualified personnel. Astellas and its contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may default in their obligations to supply clinical trial supplies and/or commercial product. Astellas and its contract manufacturers may fail to deliver the required quantities of XTANDI on a timely basis. Any such failure by Astellas or its contract manufacturers could delay our future clinical trials or could impair our ability to meet the market demand for XTANDI and therefore result in decreased sales. If Astellas or its contract manufacturers do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses, delays, or both, to arrange or take responsibility for contract manufacturers to manufacture XTANDI on our behalf, as we do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities. Under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, we and Astellas have the right to jointly promote XTANDI to customers in the United States. However, Astellas has the sole right to distribute and sell XTANDI to customers in the United States and the sole right to promote, distribute and sell XTANDI to customers outside 21 Table of Contents the United States. We are thus partially dependent on Astellas to successfully promote XTANDI in the United States, and solely dependent on Astellas to successfully distribute and sell XTANDI in the United States and to promote, distribute and sell XTANDI outside of the United States. Although certain of our employees have commercialization experience, as a company, we currently have only limited commercial capabilities. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales of XTANDI. We currently depend on customer support from specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers in Astellas’ network. Astellas has contracted with a limited number of specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver XTANDI to end users. The use of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers requires significant coordination with Astellas’ sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and financial organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers will: • not provide Astellas accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient- or account- level data or safety complaints regarding XTANDI; • not effectively sell or support XTANDI; • not devote the resources necessary to sell XTANDI in the volumes and within the timeframes that we expect; or • cease operations. We generally do not have control over the resource or degree of effort that any of the specialty pharmacies and distributors may devote to XTANDI, and if their performance is substandard, this will adversely affect sales of XTANDI. If Astellas’ network of specialty pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors fails to adequately perform, it could negatively impact sales of XTANDI, which would negatively impact our business, results of our operations, cash flows and liquidity. As a post-marketing commitment, we and Astellas are required to complete an open-label safety study of XTANDI in patients at high risk for seizure, and to report the results of that study to the FDA in 2019. If the results of this study reveal unacceptable safety risks, this could result in decreased commercial utilization of XTANDI for post-chemotherapy mCRPC, failure to obtain approval in other indications (including pre-chemotherapy mCRPC and breast cancer), and modifications to the existing label for post-chemotherapy mCRPC, including potentially a boxed warning. As part of the approval for XTANDI for the treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, the FDA required us and Astellas to perform a post-marketing open-label, safety study of XTANDI (160mg/day) in patients who are at high risk for seizure. We and Astellas have agreed to provide the data from this study in 2019 and submit periodic status reports to the FDA. Failure to conduct the post-approval study in a timely manner may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties. If the results of the post-approval study reveal unacceptable safety risks, we could be required by the FDA to perform additional tests or to modify the labeled indication for which XTANDI has already been approved to include additional restrictions, and /or to include a boxed warning, any one or more of which would seriously harm our business. Because our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial of XTANDI in pre-chemotherapy mCRPC patients has overall survival as a primary endpoint, the availability of approved and/or experimental agents that prolong survival, including the approved hormonal agent Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), the approved chemotherapy agents docetaxel and Jevtana (cabazitaxel), and the approved prostate cancer vaccine Provenge (sipuleucel-T), as well as the commercial availability of XTANDI, may make it more difficult for our PREVAIL trial to succeed or may prevent it from succeeding, and could reduce the magnitude of any potential survival benefit that enzalutamide may demonstrate in PREVAIL even if that trial does succeed. Our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy mCRPC is attempting to demonstrate a statistically significant difference in survival between drug-treated and placebo-treated patients. Overall survival and progression-free survival are the co-primary endpoints in our ongoing PREVAIL trial. Patients participating in our PREVAIL trial may elect to leave the trial and switch to alternative treatments that are, or may in the future become, available to them commercially, such 22 Table of Contents as Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), docetaxel, Jevtana (cabazitaxel), or Provenge (sipuleucel-T). Each of these alternative treatments has demonstrated statistically significant survival benefits of between two and one-half and five months in mCRPC patients and is commercially available. The survival of any patients who leave our PREVAIL trial to take an alternative treatment will continue to be included in the analysis of the trial. Any survival benefit conferred by these alternative treatments on the one-half of all patients in our PREVAIL trial who were randomized to placebo may have a negative impact on the results of our PREVAIL trial. Patients in our PREVAIL trial are free to leave the trial at any time, and are free to take any alternative treatment once they have left the trial. We have no ability to control or influence either of these decisions. Use of life-prolonging treatments by patients leaving our PREVAIL trial could make it more difficult for the trial to succeed, could prevent it from succeeding, and could reduce any potential survival benefit that may be demonstrated even if it does succeed. Failure of our PREVAIL trial could have significant negative effects on us, including preventing us from obtaining marketing approval in pre-chemotherapy mCRPC, which is a far larger commercial opportunity than post-chemotherapy mCRPC, being required to conduct additional trials, or causing our partner Astellas to elect to terminate our collaboration agreement. Even if our PREVAIL trial succeeds, any negative impact on the survival benefit shown in that trial could reduce or eliminate XTANDI’s ability to compete effectively with other treatments that have shown longer survival benefits. Positive results from our AFFIRM trial in post-chemotherapy mCRPC may not be predictive of results of our PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy mCRPC or any of our other ongoing and potential future clinical trials of enzalutamide. Product candidates in clinical trials, including Phase 3 clinical trials, often fail to show the desired safety and efficacy outcomes despite having progressed successfully through prior stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Even where we achieve positive results in clinical trials, subsequent clinical trials may fail, even if those subsequent trials are designed very similarly to their predecessors. Accordingly, despite the positive results from our Phase 3 AFFIRM trial of XTANDI in post-chemotherapy mCRPC, our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy mCRPC and any other of our ongoing or planned studies of enzalutamide may fail. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Astellas to further develop, manufacture and commercialize XTANDI. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Astellas’ ability to further develop, manufacture and commercialize XTANDI or that result in Astellas terminating our agreement with them. Under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for developing, seeking regulatory approval for, and commercializing XTANDI outside the United States and is responsible globally for all manufacture of product for both clinical and commercial purposes. We and Astellas are jointly responsible for commercializing XTANDI in the United States. We and Astellas share equally the costs (subject to certain exceptions), profits and losses arising from development and commercialization of XTANDI in the United States. For clinical trials useful both in the United States and in Europe or Japan, we are responsible for one-third of the total costs and Astellas is responsible for the remaining two-thirds. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Astellas, including: • Astellas’ right to terminate the collaboration agreement with us on limited notice for convenience (subject to certain limitations), or for other reasons specified in the collaboration agreement; • the need for us to identify and secure on commercially reasonable terms the services of third parties to perform key activities currently performed by Astellas in the event that Astellas were to terminate its collaboration with us, including development and commercialization activities outside of the United States and manufacturing activities globally; • adverse decisions by Astellas regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the commercialization of XTANDI; • decisions by Astellas to prioritize other of its present or future products more highly than XTANDI for either development and/or commercial purposes; • possible disagreements with Astellas as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; 23 Table of Contents • changes in key management personnel that are members of the collaboration’s various committees; and • possible disagreements with Astellas, including those regarding the development and/or commercialization of products, interpretation of the collaboration agreement and ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Astellas, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing XTANDI or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If Astellas were to unilaterally terminate our collaborative relationship, we would need to undertake manufacturing and marketing activities for XTANDI solely at our own expense and/or seek one or more other partners for some or all of these activities, worldwide. If we pursued these activities on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, might limit the indications we are able to pursue for XTANDI, and could prevent us from effectively commercializing XTANDI. If we sought to find one or more other pharmaceutical company partners for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in collaborations that have us expending greater funds and efforts than our current relationship with Astellas. We are dependent on the efforts of, and funding by, Astellas for the further development of XTANDI. Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Astellas, we and Astellas must agree on any changes to the development plan for XTANDI that is set forth in the agreement. If we and Astellas cannot agree on any such changes, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Subject to certain limitations set forth in our collaboration agreement with Astellas, Astellas is generally free to terminate the agreement at its discretion on limited notice to us. Similarly, in the event of an uncured material breach of the agreement by us, Astellas may elect to terminate the agreement, in which case all rights to develop and commercialize XTANDI will revert to us. If Astellas terminates its co-funding of our XTANDI program, we may be unable to fund the development and commercialization costs on our own and may be unable to find another partner, which could force us to raise additional capital or could cause our XTANDI program to fail. In addition, Astellas is solely responsible for the development and regulatory approval of XTANDI outside the United States, so we are entirely dependent on Astellas for the successful completion of those activities. The financial returns to us, if any, under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones and the generation of product sales. Therefore, our success, and any associated financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in large part on the performance of Astellas under the Collaboration Agreement. If Astellas fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development or commercialization of XTANDI would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected for that reason. If Astellas’ business strategies change, any such changes may adversely affect our collaborative relationship with Astellas. Astellas may change its business strategy. Decisions by Astellas to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the prostate cancer field, to emphasize other competitive agents currently in its portfolio at the expense of XTANDI, or to add additional competitive agents to its portfolio could reduce its financial incentives to continue to develop or commercialize XTANDI. For example, Astellas has partnered with us based in part on Astellas’ desire to use XTANDI as a component of building a global oncology franchise, which Astellas presently does not have. If Astellas’ strategic objective of building a global oncology franchise were to change, such change could negatively impact any commercial prospects of XTANDI. Risks Related to Our Future Product Development Candidates Our business strategy depends on our ability to identify and acquire additional product candidates which we may never acquire or identify for reasons that may not be in our control, or are otherwise unforeseen or unforeseeable to us. A key component of our business strategy is to diversify our product development risk by 24 Table of Contents identifying and acquiring new product opportunities for development. However, we may not be able to identify promising new technologies. In addition, the competition to acquire promising biomedical technologies is fierce, and many of our competitors are large, multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies with considerably more financial, development and commercialization resources and experience than we have. Thus, even if we succeed in identifying promising technologies, we may not be able to acquire rights to them on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to identify and acquire new technologies, we will be unable to diversify our product risk. We believe that any such failure would have a significant negative impact on our prospects because the risk of failure of any particular development program in the pharmaceutical industry is high. Because we depend on our management to oversee the execution of commercialization plans for XTANDI and continued development activities for enzalutamide, and to identify and acquire promising new product candidates, the loss of any of our executive officers would harm our business. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers. We are particularly dependent on the continued services of David Hung, M.D., our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors. Dr. Hung identified enzalutamide for acquisition and has primary responsibility for identifying and evaluating other potential product candidates. We believe that Dr. Hung’s services in this capacity would be difficult to replace. None of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and they may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could delay the commercialization of XTANDI and continued development activities for enzalutamide and delay or preclude the identification and acquisition of new product candidates, either of which events could harm our business. Pharmaceutical product candidates require extensive, time-consuming and expensive preclinical and clinical testing to establish safety and efficacy. We may never attract additional partners for our technologies or receive marketing approval in any jurisdiction. The research and development of pharmaceuticals is an extremely risky industry. Only a small percentage of product candidates that enter the development process ever receive marketing approval. The process of conducting the preclinical and clinical testing required to establish safety and efficacy and obtain marketing approval is expensive and uncertain and takes many years. If we are unable to complete preclinical or clinical trials of current or future product candidates, or if the results of these trials are not satisfactory to convince regulatory authorities or partners of their safety or efficacy, we will not be able to obtain marketing approval or attract additional partners for those product candidates. Furthermore, even if we or our partners are able to obtain marketing approvals for any of our product candidates, those approvals may be for indications that are not as broad as desired or may contain other limitations that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from sales of those products. If this occurs, our business would be materially harmed and our ability to generate revenue would be severely impaired. Enrollment and retention of patients in clinical trials is an expensive and time-consuming process, could be made more difficult or rendered impossible by multiple factors outside our control, including the availability of competing treatments or clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication and the results of other studies of our product candidates in the same or other indications, and could result in significant delays, cost overruns, or both, in our product development activities, or in the failure of such activities. We may encounter delays in enrolling, or be unable to enroll, a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our clinical trials, and even once enrolled we may be unable to retain a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our trials. Patient enrollment and retention in clinical trials depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the existing body of safety and efficacy data with respect to the study drug, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Furthermore, any negative results we may report in clinical trials of enzalutamide or any potential future product candidates may make it difficult or impossible to recruit and retain patients in other clinical studies of that same product candidate. Delays or failures in planned patient enrollment and/or retention may result in increased costs, 25 Table of Contents program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop enzalutamide or any product candidates, or could render further development impossible. Our reliance on third parties for the operation of our business may result in material delays, cost overruns and/or quality deficiencies in our development programs. We rely on outside vendors to perform key product development tasks, such as conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates at appropriate scale for preclinical and clinical trials and, in situations where we are unable to transfer those responsibilities to a corporate partner, for commercial use as well. To manage our business successfully, we will need to identify, engage and properly manage qualified external vendors that will perform these development activities. For example, we need to monitor the activities of our vendors closely to ensure that they are performing their tasks correctly, on time, on budget and in compliance with strictly enforced regulatory standards. Our ability to identify and retain key vendors with the requisite knowledge is critical to our business and the failure to do so could negatively impact our business. Because all of our key vendors perform services for other clients in addition to us, we also need to ensure that they are appropriately prioritizing our projects. If we fail to manage our key vendors well, we could incur material delays, cost overruns or quality deficiencies in our development and commercialization programs, as well as other material disruptions to our business. Risks Related to the Pharmaceutical Industry, Including the Activities of Medivation, Inc. Our industry is highly regulated by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies. We must comply with extensive, strictly enforced regulatory requirements to develop and obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Before we, Astellas or any potential future partners can obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, our product candidates must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. The preclinical and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulation by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. We are required to obtain and maintain an effective investigational new drug application to commence human clinical trials in the United States and must obtain and maintain additional regulatory approvals before proceeding to successive phases of our clinical trials. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy for its intended use. It takes years to complete the testing of a new drug or medical device and development delays and/or failure can occur at any stage of testing. Any of our present and future clinical trials may be delayed or halted due to any of the following: • any preclinical test or clinical trial may fail to produce safety and efficacy results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are ongoing or have been completed and were successful; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; • the FDA might not approve the clinical processes or facilities that we utilize, or the processes or facilities of our consultants, including without limitation the vendors who will be manufacturing drug substance and drug product for us or any potential collaborators; 26 Table of Contents • any regulatory approval we, Astellas or any potential future collaborators ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in FDA policies or the policies of foreign regulatory authorities during the period in which we develop a product candidate or the period required for review of any final regulatory approval before we are able to market any product candidate. In addition, information generated during the clinical trial process is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval at any stage of the approval process. Failure to demonstrate adequately the quality, safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the applicable product candidate. There can be no assurance that if clinical trials are completed, either we or our collaborative partners will submit applications for required authorizations to manufacture or market potential products or that any such application will be reviewed and approved by appropriate regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if at all. If XTANDI or any potential future product candidates cannot be manufactured in a cost-effective manner and in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other applicable regulatory standards, they will not be commercially successful. All pharmaceutical and medical device products in the United States, Europe and other countries must be manufactured in strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable regulatory standards. Establishing a cGMP-compliant process to manufacture pharmaceutical products involves significant time, cost and uncertainty. Furthermore, to be commercially viable, any such process would have to yield product on a cost-effective basis, using raw materials that are commercially available on acceptable terms. We face the risk that our contract manufacturers may have interruptions in raw material supplies, be unable to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements, or, for other reasons beyond their or our control, be unable to complete their manufacturing responsibilities on time, on budget, or at all. Under our Collaboration Agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for all manufacture of XTANDI for commercial purposes, but we cannot guarantee that Astellas will be able to supply XTANDI in a timely manner or at all, or that continued commercial-scale cGMP manufacture of XTANDI using a validated manufacturing process will be possible on a cost-effective basis, which would materially and adversely affect the value of our XTANDI program. We are subject to certain healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement that may impact the commercialization of XTANDI and our product candidates. Failure to comply with such laws, regulations and enforcement could subject us to significant fines and penalties and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. We are subject to several healthcare regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. These laws may impact, among other things, the sales, marketing and education programs for XTANDI or any of our potential future product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale: • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively, “HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (“HITECH”) which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; 27 Table of Contents • the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which, among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use, and regulates the distribution of drug samples; • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, District of Columbia, and Minnesota limiting the provision of and/or requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to healthcare professionals. Moreover, Section 6002 of PPACA includes new requirements for pharmaceuticals manufacturers, among others, to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in PPACA, including reporting any payment or “transfer of value” made or distributed to teaching hospitals, prescribers, and other healthcare providers and reporting any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations during the preceding calendar year. Section 6002 of PPACA includes in its reporting requirements a broad range of transfers of value (such as, for example, consulting fees, charitable contributions, payments for research, and grants) and excludes a transfer of anything the value of which is less than $10, unless the aggregate amount of such transfers of value to a recipient exceeds $100 annually. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued its final rule implementing Section 6002 of PPACA in February 2013, stating that data collection would be required as of August 1, 2013, and manufacturers must report the data for August through December of 2013 to CMS by March 31, 2014. CMS will release the data on a public website by September 30, 2014. Failure to so report could subject companies to significant financial penalties. Several states currently have similar laws and more states may enact similar legislation. Reporting and potential public disclosure of these expenses may make it more difficult to recruit physicians for assistance with activities that would be helpful to our business. Tracking and reporting the required expenses may result in considerable expense and additional resources. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Even though we have obtained approval to market XTANDI in the United States, we are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review, including post-approval requirements that could result in the withdrawal of XTANDI from the market. XTANDI was approved for the treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients under the FDA’s priority review program, which provides for an expedited review for drugs that may offer significant improvement in treatment or provide treatment where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists. Even though we have obtained approval to market XTANDI in the United States, we are subject to extensive ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review from the FDA and other applicable regulatory agencies, such as continued adverse event reporting requirements. There may also be additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize XTANDI in the United States or potentially other jurisdictions. We and the manufacturers of XTANDI are also required to comply with current cGMP regulations which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture XTANDI, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspections. In 28 Table of Contents addition, regulatory agencies subject an approved product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with XTANDI, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facilities where XTANDI is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of XTANDI, up to and including withdrawal of XTANDI from the market. If our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such noncompliance could result in regulatory action and additional costs to us. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • issuance of Form 483 notices or Warning Letters by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • imposition of fines and other civil penalties; • criminal prosecutions; • injunctions, suspensions or revocations of regulatory approvals; • suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; • delays in commercialization; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or Astellas; • refusals to permit drugs to be imported into or exported from the United States; • restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • product recalls or seizures. The policies of the FDA and other regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of XTANDI in other indications or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or Astellas might not be permitted to market XTANDI and our business would suffer. If any promotional activities that we undertake fail to comply with the regulations and guidelines of the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory agencies, we may be subject to warnings or enforcement actions that could harm our business. Physicians may prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the drug’s labeling or for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies cannot actively promote approved drugs for off-label uses but may in some jurisdictions and under specified conditions disseminate articles published in peer-reviewed journals that discuss off-label uses of approved products to physicians. To the extent allowed, we may in the future disseminate peer-reviewed articles on our products to physicians. If our promotional activities for XTANDI and any other potential future product candidate for which we may receive regulatory approval fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement by, these authorities. We may be subject to product liability or other litigation, which could result in an inefficient allocation of our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy, limit sales of XTANDI and limit commercialization of any other potential future products that we may develop and, if successful, materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition as a result of the costs of liabilities that may be imposed thereby. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development, 29 Table of Contents manufacturing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products. If XTANDI or any potential future product candidate harms people, or is alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, corporate partners or others. We have product liability insurance covering commercial sales of XTANDI and our ongoing clinical trials. However, the amount of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant litigation costs and liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for injuries allegedly caused by XTANDI or any of our current or future product candidates, our litigation costs and liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for XTANDI and any potential future product candidate that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize any other products that we may develop. In addition, we may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation that may arise from time to time may adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. Risks Related the Operation of our Business We have a history of net losses and we may incur substantial losses in the foreseeable future as we continue our development and commercialization activities and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred cumulative net losses of $291.5 million since inception through December 31, 2012 and expect to incur substantial additional losses in the foreseeable future as we continue to finance the commercialization of XTANDI in the U.S. market, clinical and preclinical studies of XTANDI and our early-stage technologies, and our corporate overhead costs. Our operating losses have had and will continue to have an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. We and our collaboration partner Astellas commenced commercial sales of XTANDI in the U.S. for the treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients on September 13, 2012. Sales and profit potential is unproven. We did not generate any collaboration revenue attributable to U.S. XTANDI sales until the third quarter of 2012. We do not know when, or if, XTANDI will begin to generate profits in the U.S. market, will be approved for sale in the U.S. market for any indication other than treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients, or will be approved for sale in any other market for any indication. We may never achieve profitability and even if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have funded our operations primarily through public offerings of our common stock, the issuance of the Convertible Notes, and from the up-front, development milestone and cost-sharing payments under the Astellas Collaboration Agreement and our former collaboration agreement with Pfizer. Our significant level of indebtedness and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to service our indebtedness and lease obligations when payments are due. At December 31, 2012, we had outstanding $258.8 million of the Convertible Notes, and $39.4 million of minimum lease commitments under operating leases. We may also incur additional indebtedness 30 Table of Contents to meet future financing needs. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including with respect to the Convertible Notes and operating leases; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; • reduce the availability of our cash resources to fund our operations because we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and operating lease payments; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • prevent us from raising funds necessary to purchase the Convertible Notes following a fundamental change, which includes a non-stock takeover of our company and certain other merger and business combination transactions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less highly leveraged and that, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through public offerings of our common stock, proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Notes and from up-front, development milestone and cost-sharing payments received pursuant to our collaboration agreement with Astellas that we entered into in October 2009, or the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, and our former collaboration agreement with Pfizer. We did not generate any revenue attributable to XTANDI U.S. sales until the third quarter of 2012. The sales and profit potential of XTANDI is unproven. At December 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $296.2 million available to fund our operations. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of profit and positive cash flows from sales of XTANDI, which we may never do, our ability to make payments on the Convertible Notes and our operating leases when they become due and to satisfy our other cash requirements will depend on our existing cash resources and future financing activity, if any. We may need additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which would force us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs and other operations, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or any combination of the foregoing. Raising additional capital may subject us to unfavorable terms, cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our product candidates and technologies. We have a history of net losses and we expect to incur substantial additional losses in the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including without limitation: • costs associated with commercialization of XTANDI for post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients in the United States; • the timing and magnitude of sales of XTANDI for post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients; • whether any changes are made to the scope of our ongoing clinical development activities; • the scope and results of our and our collaboration partner’s preclinical and clinical trials; • whether we experience delays in our preclinical and clinical development programs; • whether opportunities to acquire additional product candidates arise and the timing and costs of acquiring and developing those product candidates; 31 Table of Contents • whether we are able to enter into additional third-party collaborative partnerships to develop and/or commercialize potential future product candidates on terms, including development and commercialization cost share terms, that are acceptable to us; • the timing and requirements of, and the costs involved in, conducting studies required to obtain regulatory approvals for XTANDI or potential future product candidates from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies; • the availability of third parties to perform the key development tasks for XTANDI and potential future product candidates, including conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates to be tested in those studies, and the associated costs of those services; • expenses associated with ongoing litigation; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending the validity of and enforcing patent claims and other costs related to patent rights and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; and • interest payments and potential cash settlement of the Convertible Notes and operating lease payments. Based on our current expectations, we believe our capital resources at December 31, 2012, combined with our anticipated future cash flows, will be sufficient to fund our currently planned operations for at least the next 12 months. This estimate is based on a number of assumptions that may prove to be wrong, including assumptions regarding net sales of XTANDI in the U.S. market, potential XTANDI approvals in other markets and for other indications, and potential receipt of profit sharing, royalty, and milestone payments under our Astellas Collaboration Agreement, and we could exhaust our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments earlier than presently anticipated. For example, we may be required or choose to seek additional capital to fund the costs of commercialization of XTANDI in the United States., to expand our preclinical and clinical development activities for XTANDI and other existing or potential future product candidates, if we face challenges or delays in connection with our clinical trials, to maintain minimum cash balances that we deem reasonable and prudent, or in the event a fundamental change occurs under the terms of the Convertible Notes, which would give the holders of the Convertible Notes the right to require us to purchase their Convertible Notes in cash. Our current view of the worldwide capital markets is that they are extremely volatile with limited accessibility, and many biotechnology companies have had limited or no success in obtaining funding in this environment. Continuation of this challenging market climate may significantly limit our ability to raise funds, and there can be no assurance we will be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. In the event we do raise additional funds, any additional equity financing would be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and increase our interest expense, leverage and operating and financial costs. Our failure to raise capital when needed may harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we could be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs and other operations, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or any combination of the foregoing. We may seek to raise additional funds through public or private financing or other arrangements. We cannot assure you that any of these actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on the Convertible Notes or to fund our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that our business will have access to sufficient cash resources to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. The proposed changes to financial accounting standards, if adopted, could require our operating leases to be recognized on our consolidated balance sheet. In addition to our significant level of indebtedness, we have significant obligations relating to our current operating leases. At December 31, 2012, we had minimum lease 32 Table of Contents payments of $39.4 million relating to operating leases. These leases are classified as operating leases and disclosed in footnotes to our consolidated financial statements, but are not reflected as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. In August 2010, the FASB, and the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, issued a joint discussion paper highlighting proposed changes to financial accounting standards for leases. Currently, Accounting Standards Codification 840, or ASC 840, “Leases,” requires that operating leases are classified as off-balance sheet transactions and only operating lease expense for the current year is included in the consolidated statements of operations. The proposed changes to ASC 840 could potentially require recognition of our operating leases as assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. The right to use the leased property would be capitalized as an asset and the present value of future lease payments would be accounted for as a liability. The proposed changes are under the review of FASB, IASB and other accounting authorities, and are expected to be finalized in 2013. A retroactive adoption may be required when the changes become effective. We have not quantified the impact of this proposed standard on our consolidated financial statements. If our current operating leases are recognized on our consolidated financial statements, it could likely result in a significant increase in the liabilities reflected on our consolidated balance sheets and an increase in the interest expense and depreciation and amortization expense reflected in our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in our effective income tax rate could negatively impact our earnings. We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates in which we may conduct business, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in accounting standards and other items. The impact of our income tax provision resulting from these items may be significant and could have a negative impact on our earnings. We are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and we could be subject to assessments of additional taxes and/or substantial fines or penalties. The resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Intellectual property protection for our product candidates is crucial to our business, and is subject to a significant degree of legal risk, particularly in the life sciences industry. The success of our business will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection, primarily patent protection, covering XTANDI and any potential future product candidates, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We and our collaborators will only be able to protect XTANDI and our potential future product candidates from unauthorized commercialization by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us or our potential future collaborators to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Further, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be granted or enforced for our patents or for third-party patents that we have licensed. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; 33 Table of Contents • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and future issued patents, or those of our licensors, may not provide a basis for protecting commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties and invalidated or rendered unenforceable; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable. Our existing and any future patent rights may not adequately protect XTANDI or any potential future product candidates, which could impact our ability to generate revenues or profits. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending or future patent applications will mature into issued patents, or that any of our current or future issued patents will adequately protect XTANDI or any potential future product candidates from competitors. Nor can we guarantee that any of our present or future issued patents will not be challenged by third parties, or that they will withstand any such challenge. If we are not able to obtain adequate protection for, or defend, the intellectual property position of XTANDI or any other potential future product candidates, then we may not be able to attract collaborators to acquire or partner our development programs. Further, even if we can obtain protection for and defend the intellectual property position of XTANDI or any potential future product candidates, we or any of our potential future collaborators still may not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing drugs. Should this occur, we and our potential future collaborators may not generate any revenues or profits from XTANDI or any potential future product candidates or our revenue or profits would be significantly decreased. We could become subject to litigation or other challenges regarding intellectual property rights, which could divert management attention, cause us to incur significant costs, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and/or subject us to competition by lower priced generic products. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and elsewhere involving pharmaceutical patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have been very aggressive in challenging the validity of patents held by proprietary pharmaceutical companies, especially if these patents are commercially significant. We are facing patent oppositions in Europe and Australia, and we may face similar challenges to our existing or future patents covering XTANDI or any potential future product candidates. If a generic pharmaceutical company or other third party were able to successfully invalidate any of our present or future patents, XTANDI and any potential future product candidates that may ultimately receive marketing approval could face additional competition from lower priced generic products that would result in significant price and revenue erosion and have a significantly negative impact on the commercial viability of the affected product candidate(s). In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend our activities in response to alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation, or a narrowing of the scope, of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to litigate and resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • discontinue our products that use or are covered by the challenged intellectual property; or • obtain from the owner of the allegedly infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance does not cover potential claims of this type. In addition, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face other challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings, re-examination proceedings, inter partes review, post grant review, derivation proceedings and pre-grant submissions. Any such challenge, if successful, could result in the 34 Table of Contents invalidation of, or in a narrowing of the scope of, any of our patents and patent applications subject to the challenge. Any such challenges, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend and resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement to protect our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not prevail in making these claims. We rely on license agreements for certain aspects of our product candidates and our technology. We may in the future need to obtain additional licenses of third-party technology that may not be available to us or are available only on commercially unreasonable terms, and which may cause us to operate our business in a more costly or otherwise adverse manner that was not anticipated. We have entered into agreements with third-party commercial and academic institutions to license intellectual property rights and technology. For example, we have a license agreement with UCLA pursuant to which we were granted exclusive worldwide rights to certain UCLA patents related to XTANDI and a family of related compounds. Some of these license agreements, including our license agreement with UCLA, contain diligence and milestone-based termination provisions, in which case our failure to meet any agreed upon diligence requirements or milestones may allow the licensor to terminate the agreement. If our licensors terminate our license agreements or if we are unable to maintain the exclusivity of our exclusive license agreements, we may be unable to continue to develop and commercialize XTANDI or any potential future product candidates based on licensed intellectual property rights and technology. From time to time we may be required to license technology from additional third parties to further develop XTANDI and any future product candidates. Should we be required to obtain licenses to any third-party technology, including any such patents based on biological activities or required to manufacture our product candidates, such licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop any of our product candidates could cause us to abandon any related development efforts, which could seriously harm our business and operations. We may become involved in disputes with Astellas or any potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant impact on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaboration agreements, including the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors generally have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. Trade secrets may not provide adequate protection for our business and technology. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or any potential collaborators’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent 35 Table of Contents knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches, whether by employees or others, which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. Such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Convertible Notes Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market value of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes could decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Due to the approval by the FDA of XTANDI for the treatment of post-chemotherapy mCRPC patients and the dearth of historical sales data, XTANDI sales will be difficult to predict from period to period. As a result, you should not rely on XTANDI sales results in any period as being indicative of future performance and sales of XTANDI may be below the expectation of securities analysts or investors in the future. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors, including: • the level of demand for XTANDI; • the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for XTANDI is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payors; • the timing, cost and level of investment in our and Astellas’ sales and marketing efforts to support XTANDI sales; • the timing, cost and level of investment in our research and development activities involving XTANDI and our product candidates; • the cost of manufacturing XTANDI, and the amount of legally mandated discounts to government entities, other discounts and rebates, product returns and other gross-to-net deductions; • the risk/benefit profile, cost and reimbursement of existing and potential future drugs which compete with XTANDI; • the timeliness and accuracy of financial information we receive from Astellas regarding XTANDI net sales globally, and shared U.S. development and commercialization costs for XTANDI incurred by Astellas, including the accuracy of the estimates Astellas uses in calculating any such financial information; and • expenditures that we will or may incur to acquire or develop additional technologies, product candidates and products. In addition, from time to time, we enter into collaboration agreements with other companies that include development funding and significant upfront and milestone payments, and we expect that amounts earned from our collaboration agreements will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Accordingly, our revenues will also depend on development funding and the achievement of development and clinical milestones under our existing collaboration with Astellas, as well as any potential future collaboration and license agreements. These upfront and milestone payments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and any such variance could 36 Table of Contents cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results from one quarter to the next. Further, we measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, including our underlying stock price and stock price volatility, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. For these and other reasons, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast future profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts’ estimates of our future performance. The analysts’ estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market value of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes could decline, perhaps substantially. We have been named as a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit. This lawsuit could result in substantial damages and may divert management’s time and attention from our business and operations. In March 2010, the first of several putative securities class action lawsuits was commenced in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, naming as defendants us and certain of our officers. The lawsuits are largely identical and allege violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants disseminated false and misleading statements about the effectiveness of dimebon for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. The plaintiffs purport to seek damages, an award of their costs and injunctive relief on behalf of a class of stockholders who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between September 21, 2006 and March 2, 2010. The actions were consolidated in September 2010 and, in April 2011, the court entered an order appointing Catoosa Fund, L.P. and its attorneys as lead plaintiff and lead counsel. Thereafter, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint, which was dismissed without prejudice as to all defendants in August 2011. The lead plaintiff filed a second amended complaint in November 2011. In March 2012, the court dismissed the second amended complaint with prejudice and entered judgment in favor of defendants. Lead plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in April 2012. The appeal is fully briefed and we are awaiting notice of the date for oral argument. Our management believes that we have meritorious positions and intends to defend this lawsuit vigorously. However, this lawsuit is subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual cost will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of the suit and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation and, although we believe the Company is entitled to coverage under the relevant insurance policies, subject to a $350,000 retention, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from this matter, as this lawsuit is currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve this matter or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages, or possibly fines, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending litigation could lead to more volatility in our stock price. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and our stockholders’ investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for our securities and those of other life sciences companies have been highly volatile and often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies, and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. There has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of life sciences companies because of problems or successes in a given market segment or because investor interest has shifted to other segments. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock 37 Table of Contents to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We have no control over this volatility and can only focus our efforts on our own operations, and even these may be affected due to the state of the capital markets. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. New litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described herein, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • our ability to meet the expectations of investors related to the commercialization of XTANDI; • inaccurate sales or cash forecasting of XTANDI; • the timing and amount of revenues generated from sale of XTANDI; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • legislation or regulatory actions or decisions affecting XTANDI, including the timing and outcome of the EMA’s decision relating to XTANDI, or product candidates, including those of our competitors; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to XTANDI; • the receipt or failure to receive the additional funding necessary to conduct our business; • the progress and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates conducted by us, Astellas or any future collaborative partners or licensees, if any, and any delays in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to complete clinical trials of our product candidates; • the announcement by our competitors of results from clinical trials of their products or product candidates; • selling by existing stockholders and short-sellers; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaboration with Astellas or any future collaborations; • publicity regarding us, our product candidates or those of our competitors, including research reports published by securities analysts; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • litigation, including the purported securities class action lawsuits pending against us and certain of our officers; • hedging or arbitrage trading activity involving our common stock, including in connection with arbitrage strategies employed or that may be employed by investors in the Convertible Notes; • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and other market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Securities-related class action litigation is often brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Securities-related litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and financial resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. Additionally, 38 Table of Contents volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key employees, all of whom have been or will be granted stock options as a part of their compensation. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would also likely adversely impact the trading price of the Convertible Notes. The market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. This trading activity could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the notes. This may result in greater volatility in the trading price of the Convertible Notes than would be expected for non-convertible debt securities. We rely on Astellas to timely deliver important financial information relating to net sales of XTANDI. In the event that this information is inaccurate, incomplete, or not timely, we will not be able to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. Under the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, Astellas has exclusive control over the flow of information relating to net sales of XTANDI that we are dependent upon to meet our SEC reporting obligations. Astellas is required under the Astellas Collaboration Agreement to provide us with timely and accurate financial data related to net sales of XTANDI so that we may meet our reporting requirements under federal securities laws. In the event that Astellas fails to provide us with timely and accurate information, we may incur significant liability with respect to federal securities laws, our disclosure controls and procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, may be inadequate, and we may be required to restate our financial statements, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and Convertible Notes and subject us to securities litigation. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and the trading price of the Convertible Notes. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of the fiscal year. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective control over financial reporting in accordance with Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot in the future favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and the trading price of our outstanding Convertible Notes. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not expect for the foreseeable future to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon, among other factors, our success in completing sales or partnerships of our programs, our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and applicable law. Our principal stockholders exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to other interests. Certain stockholders and their affiliates own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have the power to direct our affairs and be able to determine the outcome of certain matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Because a limited number of persons control us, transactions could be difficult or impossible to complete without the support of those persons. Subject to applicable law, it is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to other interests. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could 39 Table of Contents delay, deter or prevent a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless its application has been waived, provides certain default anti-takeover protections in connection with transactions between us and an “interested stockholder.” Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or the vote of two-thirds of the shares held by the independent stockholders. Our board of directors has also adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. Additionally, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including without limitation, the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, including additional shares associated with the potential conversion of the Convertible Notes, which could cause our stock price to fall and cause dilution to existing stockholders. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. In addition, we may elect to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligations under the Convertible Notes with shares of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including upon conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes, would dilute the ownership interests of existing holders of our common stock. Dilution will be greater if the conversion rate of the Convertible Notes is adjusted upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the indenture to the Convertible Notes. The issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock that were previously restricted from sale in the public market, or the perception that these issuances or sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and in turn adversely impact the trading price of the Convertible Notes. In addition, holders of the Convertible Notes may hedge their investment in the Convertible Notes by short selling our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock. As a result, investors may not be able to sell their shares of our securities at a price equal to or above the price they paid to acquire them. Furthermore, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Provisions in the indenture for the Convertible Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. Under the terms of the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, the occurrence of a fundamental change would require us to repurchase all or a portion of the Convertible Notes in cash, or, in some circumstances, increase the conversion rate applicable to the Convertible Notes. In addition, the indenture for the Convertible Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or business combination transactions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Any adverse rating of the Convertible Notes may negatively affect the price of our common stock. We do not intend to seek a rating on the Convertible Notes. However, if a rating service were to rate the Convertible Notes and if such rating service were to assign the Convertible Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors or were to lower its rating on the Convertible Notes below the rating initially assigned to the Convertible Notes or otherwise announce its intention to put the Convertible Notes on credit watch, the price of our common stock could decline. 40 Table of Contents The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert their notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share), we would be required to settle all or a portion of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. We may, at any time prior to the final settlement method election date, irrevocably elect to satisfy our conversion obligation with respect to each subsequent conversion date in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, if any, with a specified dollar amount of $1,000, in which case we will no longer be permitted to settle the principal portion of any converted Convertible Notes in shares of our common stock. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under Financial Accounting Standards BoardAccounting Standards Codification 470-20, “Debt with Conversion and Other Options”, or ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes. In periods in which we report earnings, we use the “if-converted” method in calculating the diluted earnings per common share effect of the assumed conversion of our contingently Convertible Notes. Under the “if-converted” method, interest expense related to the Convertible Notes is added back to net income, and the Convertible Notes are assumed to be converted into common shares at the beginning of the period (or the issuance date). The use of the “if-converted” method could adversely impact our diluted earnings per share should we report any earnings. The repurchase rights and events of default features of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Following a fundamental change under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, dated as of March 19, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Trustee, as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture dated as of March 19, 2012, or the Indenture, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their Convertible Notes for cash. In addition, if an event of default under the Convertible Notes is triggered, the trustee or the holders of the Convertible Notes may declare the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable. In either event, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy our obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if the repurchase rights are not exercised or the payment of principal and interest of Convertible Notes is not accelerated, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 