Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K and the following information: Industry Factors The U.S. and global economies have experienced a slowing of economic growth, volatility in the financial markets, and significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S. residential real estate markets, all of which present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for Union Bank of California Commencing in 2007 and continuing into 2008, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for Union Bank of California. These developments include a general slowing of economic growth both globally and in the U.S. which has prompted the Congress to adopt an economic stimulus bill which President Bush signed into law on February 13, 2008, and which prompted the Federal Reserve Board to decrease its discount rate and the federal funds rate several times in the first quarter of 2008. These developments have contributed to substantial volatility in the equity securities markets, as well as volatility and a tightening of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, financial and credit conditions in the domestic residential real estate markets have deteriorated significantly, particularly in the subprime sector. These conditions in turn have led to significant deterioration in certain financial markets, particularly the markets for subprime residential mortgage-backed securities and for collateralized debt obligations backed by residential mortgage-backed securities. In addition, these conditions have rendered it more difficult for financial institutions and others to obtain transparent valuations for various portfolio debt securities, especially in the case of collateralized debt obligations backed by residential mortgage-backed securities or other collateral, including corporate obligations, as well as contributing to a widening of credit spreads and a general lack of liquidity in the marketplace, all of which can result in decreases in fair value of portfolio securities of these types. If, notwithstanding the federal government's recent fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to go into a recession, this would present additional significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for Union Bank of California. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets and businesses of the Bank may be affected, these factors could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and the Bank. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact and has impacted our margin spread, that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. 12 Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, causing us to incur increased funding costs The banking industry and we are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments either with us or with external providers. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. Changes in the premiums payable to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will increase our costs and could adversely affect our business Deposits of Union Bank of California, are insured up to statutory limits by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and, accordingly, are subjected to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. In November 2006, the FDIC issued a final rule, effective January 1, 2007, that created a new assessment system designed to more closely tie what banks pay for deposit insurance to the risks they pose and adopted a new base schedule of rates that the FDIC can adjust up or down, depending on the revenue needs of the insurance fund. This new assessment system has resulted in annual assessments on deposits of Union Bank of California of approximately 5 basis points. Prior to this change, Union Bank of California was not paying any insurance assessments on deposits under the FDIC's risk-related assessment system. An FDIC credit for prior contributions offset the assessment for 2007. Once the credit is exceeded, which we presently expect to occur in the first half of 2008, the deposit insurance assessments Union Bank of California pays will increase our costs. Any future increases in the deposit insurance assessments Union Bank of California pays would further increase our costs. The continuing war on terrorism and overseas military conflicts could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon and Washington, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources that are well in excess of ours. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions, which have grown rapidly in recent years. 13 The effects of, changes in or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our stock or other securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will likely continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's controlling ownership of us, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)—Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for discussion of other laws and regulations that may affect our business, and certain pending or threatened regulatory or other governmental matters, including those relating to the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations (BSA/AML). Such matters include a Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, and a Consent Order to a Civil Money Penalty and to Cease and Desist (the Order) entered into by Union Bank of California with the OCC, an Assessment of Civil Money Penalty by the U.S. Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), and a Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered into by Union Bank of California with the Department of Justice with respect to BSA/AML matters. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very 14 difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. Company Factors Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business The State of California currently faces economic and fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and fee income are generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector, especially the subprime housing markets, and the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties. The California state government is currently experiencing budget shortfalls which in January 2008 prompted Governor Schwarzenegger to declare a fiscal emergency. This declaration could lead to reduced spending by the State of California and its agencies. It is also possible that the legislature response to the budget crisis could lead to increased state taxes in California. The financial and economic consequences of this situation cannot be predicted with any certainty at this time. If economic conditions in California decline, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant and increasing portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, which in turn could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a further downturn in the residential real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. Although we do not engage in subprime or negative amortization lending, effects of recent subprime market challenges, combined with the ongoing deterioration in the U.S. and California real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and a lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolio in various ways, including by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors, including the home building industry, the commercial real estate industry, the communications/media industry, the retail industry, the energy industry and the technology industry. The home building industry in California has been especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets, particularly in the subprime housing sector. Continued increases in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. 15 Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact from current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers' ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowance. Continued increases in fuel and energy costs could also adversely impact some borrowers' ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowance because of unexpected events. Any increase in the allowance would result in a charge to earnings. We are not able to offer all of the financial services and products of a financial holding company Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can now combine as a "financial holding company." Financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Many of our competitors have elected to become financial holding companies. A number of foreign banks have either acquired financial holding companies or obtained financial holding company status in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. Under current regulatory interpretations, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group would be required to make a financial holding company election in order for us to have the benefits of this status. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is not presently a financial holding company. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ; our interests and those of our minority stockholders may not be the same as those of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, owns a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for us or any other change in control could also have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. A majority of our directors are independent of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. However, because of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's control over the election of our directors, we could designate ourselves as a "controlled company" under the New York Stock Exchange rules and could change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. We have not done so. 16 Possible future sales of our shares by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect the market for our stock The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ may sell shares of our common stock. By virtue of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's current control of us, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could sell large amounts of shares of our common stock by causing us to file a registration statement that would allow it to sell shares more easily. In addition, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could sell shares of our common stock without registration under certain circumstances, such as in a private transaction. Although we can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of our common stock, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ sells or transfers shares of our common stock as a block, another person or entity could become our controlling stockholder. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations We fund our operations independently of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. However, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's credit ratings may affect our credit ratings. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. For additional information, see "MD&A—Regulatory Matters." Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's risk management processes, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors' and officers' ownership interests in Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their 17 claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Our ability to make acquisitions is subject to regulatory constraints, and risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us Our ability to obtain regulatory approval of acquisitions is constrained while the OCC's Order, described in "MD&A—Regulatory Matters" in this Form 10-K, is in effect. As to matters requiring regulatory approval, when we have successfully addressed the OCC's regulatory concerns, we may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non-financial companies that complement our business. We may not be successful in completing any acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and business lines and may sell or restructure a business or business line. Any acquisitions or restructurings may result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and/or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any divestures may also result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the assimilation or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition, divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and unexpected contingent liabilities arising from any business we might acquire. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divesture or restructuring we might make. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. 18 Significant legal proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results The State of California requires us to file our franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and either all worldwide affiliates or only U.S. affiliates. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by increases or decreases in Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's taxable profits, which in turn are affected by changes in the worldwide economy, especially in Japan, and decisions that they may make about the timing of the recognition of credit losses or other matters. We review Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's financial information on a quarterly basis in order to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to the difference between our and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's fiscal year-ends. Our effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation, by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and with respect to our California state tax liability, by adjustments that may be necessary from time to time to recognize differences in estimated California state tax expense based on MUFG's estimated worldwide income and its actual results. We are subject to operational risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in "MD&A—Business Segments." Operational risk includes reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption "The effects of, changes in or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us." We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Failures in our internal control or operational systems could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as computer hacking or viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. 19 Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We fund our operations independently of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. However, negative public opinion could also result from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank of California, or The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale or other borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to our company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework's underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 