Risk Factors,” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” GENERAL DESCRIPTION The terms “United Fire,” “United Fire Group,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to United Fire & Casualty Company or United Fire & Casualty Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliate, as the context requires. We are engaged in the business of writing property and casualty insurance and life insurance and selling annuities. United Fire & Casualty Company was incorporated in Iowa in January 1946. Our principal executive office is located at 118 Second Avenue SE, P.O. Box 73909, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52407-3909. Telephone: 319-399-5700. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed 659 full-time employees and 14 part-time employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement. Reportable Segments We report our operations in two business segments: property and casualty insurance and life insurance. A table reflecting revenues, net income and assets attributable to our operating segments is included in Part II, Item 8, Note 11, “Segment Information.” All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Our property and casualty insurance segment includes United Fire & Casualty Company and the following companies, which are wholly owned by United Fire & Casualty Company, directly or indirectly: Addison Insurance Company, an Illinois property and casualty insurer; Lafayette Insurance Company, a Louisiana property and casualty insurer; United Fire & Indemnity Company, a Texas property and casualty insurer; American Indemnity Financial Corporation, a Delaware holding company; and Texas General Indemnity Company, a Colorado property and casualty insurer. United Fire Lloyds, a Texas property and casualty insurer, is an affiliate of and operationally and financially controlled by United Fire & Indemnity Company. Most of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool’s capital and surplus, rather than being limited to policy exposures of a size commensurate with each participant’s own surplus level. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all of the insurance business that is written, and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses based on percentages defined in the arrangement. Our life insurance segment consists of United Life Insurance Company, an Iowa life insurer and wholly owned subsidiary of United Fire & Casualty Company. 1 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Available Information United Fire Group provides free and timely access to all company reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.unitedfiregroup.com. Select “SEC Filings” to view the list of filings, which includes: • Annual reports (Form 10-K) • Quarterly reports (Form 10-Q) • Current reports (Form 8-K) • Beneficial ownership reports (Forms 3, 4 and 5) • Amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Exchange Act. Such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our Code of Ethics is also available at www.unitedfiregroup.com in the Investor Relations section. To view it, select “Corporate Governance” and then “Code of Ethics.” Free paper copies of any materials that we file with the SEC can also be obtained by writing to Investor Relations, United Fire Group, P.O. Box 73909, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52407-3909 or by visiting the SEC Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. For information about the Public Reference Room, call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION We market our products through our home office in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and two regional locations: Westminster, Colorado, a suburb of Denver, and Galveston, Texas. We are licensed as a property and casualty insurer in 43 states, primarily in the Midwest, West and South, plus the District of Columbia. We have 813 independent agencies representing us and our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries. The following table depicts the top five states for direct premiums written for our property and casualty insurance operations in 2009. Direct % to Total Direct (In Thousands) Premiums Written Premiums Written Texas $ 69,900 15.4 % Iowa 69,515 15.3 Louisiana 41,743 9.2 Missouri 41,185 9.1 Colorado 33,938 7.5 Direct Premiums Written (1) $ 256,281 56.5 % (1) The Statutory Financial Measures section of Part II, Item 7 defines data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP. 2 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Our life insurance subsidiary is licensed in 28 states, primarily in the Midwest and West, and is represented by 933 independent agencies. The following table depicts the top five states for direct statutory premium volume for our life insurance operations in 2009. % to Total Direct Statutory Direct Statutory (In Thousands) Premium Volume Premium Volume Iowa $ 94,658 36.8 % Nebraska 33,103 12.9 Minnesota 23,128 9.0 Wisconsin 21,548 8.4 Illinois 17,720 6.9 Direct Statutory Premium Volume $ 190,157 74.0 % We staff our regional offices with underwriting, claims and marketing representatives and administrative technicians, all of whom provide support and assistance to the independent agencies. Also, home office staff technicians and specialists provide support to the subsidiaries, regional offices and independent agencies. We use management reports to monitor subsidiary and regional offices for overall results and conformity to our business policies. COMPETITION Property and Casualty Insurance Segment The property and casualty industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous property and casualty insurance companies in the regional and national market, many of which are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial and other resources. In addition, because our products are marketed exclusively through independent insurance agencies, most of which represent more than one company, we face competition within each agency. Our competitors include companies that market their products through agents, as well as companies that sell insurance directly to their customers. Since we rely solely on independent agencies, we offer a competitive commissions program, as well as a rewarding profit-sharing plan, as incentives for agents to place high-quality property and casualty insurance business with us. We estimate property and casualty agencies will receive profit-sharing payments of $5.7 million in 2010, based on business produced by the agencies in 2009. Our competitive advantages include our commitment to: • Disciplined underwriting — we empower our underwriters with the knowledge and tools needed to make good decisions for our company • Exceptional customer service — our customers always have the option to speak with a real person • Superior loss control services — our loss control representatives make multiple visits to businesses and jobsites to ensure safety, rather than just one visit • Fair and ethical claims handling — we view claims as an opportunity to prove to our customers that they have chosen the right insurance company • Effective and efficient use technology — we use technology to provide enhanced service, reinforcing the personal relationships we have with our customers, not replacing them. 3 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 In 2009, for the second consecutive year, United Fire was recognized for the way we do business and the services we provide, being named a “Top 10 Ease of Doing Business Performer” in Deep Customer Connections Inc.’s (DCC) seventh annual Ease of Doing Business (EDB) survey. Over 8,700 independent agents and brokers assessed the performance of more than 250 property and casualty carriers as part of the survey. They rated the importance of 11 factors, ranging from underwriting responsiveness and handling claims promptly to acting with the agency’s needs in mind. DCC specializes in helping property and casualty carriers achieve profitable growth by making it easy for their agents to work with them. DCC’s EDB Index® is an industry benchmark of carriers’ EDB performance. Life Insurance Segment We also encounter significant competition in all lines of our life and fixed annuity business from other life insurance companies and other providers of financial services. Since our products are marketed exclusively through independent life insurance agencies that typically represent more than one company, we face competition within our agencies. Competitors include companies that market their products through agents, as well as companies that sell directly to their customers. To attract and maintain relationships with our independent life insurance agencies, we offer competitive commission rates and other sales incentives. Our life insurance segment achieves a competitive advantage by offering products that are simple and straightforward, by providing outstanding customer service, by being accessible to our agents and customers, and by using technology in a variety of ways to assist our agents and improve the delivery of service to our policyholders. OPERATING SEGMENTS Incorporated by reference from Note 11, “Segment Information” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Additionally, for a detailed discussion of our operating results by segment, refer to the Results of Operations section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” REINSURANCE Incorporated by reference from Note 5, “Reinsurance” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” RESERVES Property and Casualty Insurance Segment Property insurance indemnifies an insured with an interest in physical property for loss of, or damage to, such property or the loss of its income-producing abilities. Casualty insurance primarily covers liability for damage to property of, or injury to, a person or entity other than the insured. In most cases casualty insurance also obligates the insurance company to provide a defense for the insured in litigation arising out of events covered by the policy. Reserves for losses and loss settlement expenses (“loss reserves”) are management’s best estimates at a given point in time of what we expect to pay for claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported (“IBNR”), based on facts, circumstances and historical trends then known. 4 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 The determination of reserves, particularly those relating to liability lines of insurance, reflects significant judgment factors. If, during the course of our regular monitoring of reserves, we determine that coverages previously written are incurring higher than expected losses, we will take action that may include, among others, increasing the related reserves. Any adjustments we make to reserves are reflected in operating results in the year in which we make those adjustments. As required by state law, we engage an independent actuary, Regnier Consulting Group, Inc., to render an opinion as to the adequacy of the statutory reserves we establish annually. The actuarial opinion is filed in those states where we are licensed. On a quarterly basis, Regnier Consulting Group, Inc. reviews our direct loss and loss settlement reserves for adequacy. We do not discount loss reserves based on the time value of money. However, we consider inflation in the reserving process by reviewing cost trends, loss settlement expenses, historical reserving results and likely future economic conditions. There are no material differences between our statutory reserves and those established under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a more detailed discussion of our loss reserves. The table on the following page illustrates the change in our estimate of reserves for loss and loss settlement expenses for our property and casualty companies for the years 1999 through 2008. The first section shows the amount of the liability, as originally reported, at the end of each calendar year in our Consolidated Financial Statements. These reserves represent the estimated amount of losses and loss settlement expenses for losses arising in that year and all prior years that are unpaid at the end of each year, including an estimate for our IBNR losses, net of applicable ceded reinsurance. The second section displays the cumulative amount of net losses and loss settlement expenses paid for each year with respect to that liability. The third section shows the reestimated amount of the previously recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as more information becomes known about the losses for individual years. The last section compares the latest reestimated amount with the original estimate. Conditions and trends that have affected development of loss reserves in the past may not necessarily exist in the future. Accordingly, it would not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this table. 5 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 (In Thousands) Years Ended December 31 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Gross liability for loss and loss settlement expenses $ 338,243 $ 358,032 $ 363,819 $ 392,649 $ 427,049 $ 464,889 $ 620,100 $ 518,886 $ 496,083 $ 586,109 $ 606,045 Ceded loss and loss settlement expenses 27,606 37,526 36,909 35,760 27,309 28,609 60,137 40,560 38,800 52,508 33,754 Net liability for loss and loss settlement expenses $ 310,637 $ 320,506 $ 326,910 $ 356,889 $ 399,740 $ 436,280 $ 559,963 $ 478,326 $ 457,283 $ 533,601 $ 572,291 Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 97,021 $ 110,516 $ 112,546 $ 107,271 $ 100,895 $ 110,016 $ 230,455 $ 148,593 $ 140,149 $ 195,524 Two years later 154,886 166,097 172,538 172,158 167,384 166,592 321,110 235,975 265,361 Three years later 189,730 204,792 215,002 214,307 203,861 213,144 380,294 332,768 Four years later 213,190 230,889 240,973 237,150 231,278 242,579 456,919 Five years later 231,838 245,677 252,969 253,026 250,787 264,015 Six years later 241,540 252,153 264,311 265,304 263,631 Seven years later 245,145 259,621 273,153 273,066 Eight years later 249,302 264,713 277,868 Nine years later 253,274 266,912 Ten years later 254,674 Net liability reestimated as of: End of year $ 310,637 $ 320,506 $ 326,910 $ 356,889 $ 399,740 $ 436,280 $ 559,963 $ 478,326 $ 457,283 $ 533,601 $ 572,291 One year later 273,706 273,469 315,854 344,590 361,153 358,796 534,998 433,125 457,831 559,816 Two years later 261,217 290,872 323,354 340,502 331,693 330,137 508,774 453,474 502,177 Three years later 273,921 300,011 321,168 324,582 317,187 319,335 538,451 497,629 Four years later 279,740 302,884 318,125 313,745 309,146 326,340 574,484 Five years later 279,653 298,428 309,033 308,304 316,227 327,626 Six years later 280,983 296,296 307,790 312,188 314,522 Seven years later 279,892 293,579 311,367 314,680 Eight years later 276,815 297,844 312,433 Nine years later 281,346 297,022 Ten years later 280,101 Net redundancy (deficiency) $ 30,536 $ 23,484 $ 14,477 $ 42,209 $ 85,218 $ 108,654 $ (14,521 ) $ (19,303 ) $ (44,894 ) $ (26,215 ) Net reestimated liability $ 280,101 $ 297,022 $ 312,433 $ 314,680 $ 314,522 $ 327,626 $ 574,484 $ 497,629 $ 502,177 $ 559,816 Reestimated ceded loss and loss settlement expenses 26,609 34,039 42,733 43,419 38,639 38,503 90,660 58,230 51,700 49,533 Gross reestimated liability $ 306,710 $ 331,061 $ 355,166 $ 358,099 $ 353,161 $ 366,129 $ 665,144 $ 555,859 $ 553,877 $ 609,349 Gross redundancy (deficiency) $ 31,533 $ 26,971 $ 8,653 $ 34,550 $ 73,888 $ 98,760 $ (45,044 ) $ (36,973 ) $ (57,794 ) $ (23,240 ) 6 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Life Insurance Segment We calculate the policy reserves reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. For our fixed annuities and universal life policies, we establish a benefit reserve at the time of policy issuance in an amount equal to the deposits received. Subsequently, we adjust the benefit reserve for any additional deposits, interest credited and partial or complete withdrawals as well as insurance and other expense charges. We base policy reserves for other life products on the projected contractual benefits and expenses and interest rates appropriate to those products. We base reserves for accident and health products, which are a minor portion of our reserves, on appropriate morbidity tables for the age and duration of the insured. We determine reserves for statutory purposes based upon mortality rates and interest rates specified by Iowa state law. Our life insurance subsidiary’s reserves meet or exceed the minimum statutory requirements. Griffith, Ballard & Company, an independent actuary, assists us in developing and analyzing our reserves on both a GAAP and statutory basis. For further discussion of our life insurance segment’s reserves, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” contained in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” INVESTMENTS Incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Investments” and “Critical Accounting Estimates”; Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”; and Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies” under the headings “Investments” and “Securities Lending,” Note 2, “Summary of Investments,” and Note 3, “Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” REGULATION We are not aware of any currently proposed or recently enacted state or federal regulation that would have a material impact on our operations. State Regulation We are subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent and substance of such regulation varies by state, but generally has its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state regulatory agency. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use our insurance products, and not our stockholders. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including insurance company licensing and examination; agent and adjuster licensing; price setting; trade practices; policy forms; accounting methods; the nature and amount of investments; claims practices; participation in shared markets and guaranty funds; reserve adequacy; insurer solvency; transactions with affiliates; the payment of dividends; underwriting standards; and the collection, remittance and reporting of certain taxes and fees. We discuss below the state laws and regulations that have the most significant effect on our insurance operations and financial reporting are discussed below. We cannot predict whether any specific state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of the insurance business or what effect any particular measures might have on us. 7 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Insurance Holding Company Regulation We are regulated as an insurance holding company system in the states of domicile of our property and casualty companies and life insurance subsidiary: Iowa (United Fire and United Life Insurance Company), Illinois (Addison Insurance Company), Louisiana (Lafayette Insurance Company), Texas (United Fire & Indemnity Company and United Fire Lloyds), and Colorado (Texas General Indemnity Company). These regulations require that we annually furnish financial and other information about the operations of the individual companies within our holding company system. Generally, the insurance codes of these states provide that notice to the state insurance commissioner is required before finalizing any transaction affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and before finalizing certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity in its holding company group. In addition, some of those transactions cannot be finalized without the commissioner’s prior approval. Stockholder Dividends Our dividend-paying capacity, and that of our subsidiaries, is regulated by the laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these laws, insurance companies must provide advance informational notice to the domicile state insurance regulatory authority prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its stockholders. Prior approval from the state insurance regulatory authority must be obtained before payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined under the state’s insurance code. In all cases, we may pay ordinary dividends only from our earned surplus. Refer to the Market Information section of Part II, Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” for additional information about the dividends we paid during 2009. Price Regulation Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rate schedules, policy or coverage forms, and other information within the state’s regulatory authority. In many cases, rate schedules, policy forms, or both, must be approved prior to use. While laws vary from state to state, their objectives are generally the same: an insurance rate cannot be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. The speed with which we can change our rates in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on the willingness of state regulators to allow adequate rates for the business that we write. Investment Regulation Insurance companies are subject to various state regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit the amount of investment in certain asset categories. Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of nonconforming investments as nonadmitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, these rules require us to sell nonconforming investments. Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Nonrenewing Policies Most states regulate our ability to exit a market. For example, states limit, to varying degrees, our ability to cancel and nonrenew policies. Some states prohibit us from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except with state regulatory approval. Regulations that limit policy cancellation and nonrenewal may restrict our ability to exit unprofitable markets. Insurance Guaranty Associations Each state has insurance guaranty association laws. Membership in a state’s insurance guaranty association is generally mandatory for insurers wishing to do business in the states. Under these laws, associations may assess their members for certain obligations that insolvent insurance companies have to their policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each solvent member in an amount related to that member’s proportionate share of business written by all members within the state. Most state guaranty associations allow solvent insurers to recoup the assessments they are charged through future rate increases, surcharges or premium tax credits. However, there is no assurance that we will ultimately recover these assessments. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds under these laws. 8 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans State insurance regulations require insurers to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations. These are mechanisms that generally provide applicants with various basic types of insurance coverage not otherwise available to them in voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly instituted for automobile and workers’ compensation insurance, but many states also mandate participation in Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (“FAIR”) Plans or Windstorm Plans, which provide basic property coverage. Participation is based upon the amount of a company’s voluntary market share in a particular state for the classes of insurance involved. Policies written through these mechanisms may require different underwriting standards and pose greater risk than those written through our voluntary application process. Statutory Accounting For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, state laws require us to calculate and report certain data according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the National Association of Insurance Commissioner’s (“NAIC”) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies. Insurance Reserves State insurance laws require that insurance companies analyze the adequacy of their reserves annually. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that our reserves are adequate for policy claims-paying obligations and related expenses. Financial Solvency Ratios The NAIC annually calculates 13 financial ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. A “usual range” of results for each of these ratios is used by insurance regulators as a benchmark. Departure from the usual range on four or more of the ratios could lead to inquiries from individual state insurance departments as to certain aspects of a company’s business. In addition to the financial ratios, states also require us to calculate a minimum capital requirement for each of our insurance companies based on individual company insurance risk factors. These “risk-based capital” results are used by state insurance regulators to identify companies that require regulatory attention or the initiation of regulatory action. At December 31, 2009, all of our insurance companies had capital well in excess of the required levels. Federal Regulation Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives often have an impact. Some of the current and proposed federal measures that may significantly affect our business are discussed below. Corporate Governance Reform In response to the recent financial crisis, Congress has proposed several legislative initiatives designed to strengthen corporate governance at public companies. These proposals contain several provisions that, if adopted, would affect the operation of all public companies and would require, among other things: (i) an annual nonbinding stockholder vote on executive compensation; (ii) the establishment of a risk management committee of the board of directors, composed entirely of independent directors, tasked with the periodic review of a company’s risk management policies; (iii) that the chairman of the board of directors be an independent director; (iv) that all members of the compensation committee be independent; and (v) that all members of the board of directors be elected annually by majority vote of the stockholders. 9 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING Our financial strength, as measured by statutory accounting principles, is regularly reviewed by an independent rating agency that assigns a rating based upon criteria such as results of operations, capital resources and minimum policyholders’ surplus requirements. Our family of property and casualty insurers has received a group rating of “A” (Excellent) with a “stable” outlook from A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). Within the group, all of our property and casualty insurers have an “A” (Excellent) rating, except one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable). Our life insurance subsidiary has received an “A-” (Excellent) rating with a “stable” outlook from A.M. Best. According to A.M. Best, companies rated “A” and “A-” have “an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders.” An insurer’s financial strength rating is one of the primary factors evaluated by those in the market to purchase insurance. A poor rating indicates that there is an increased likelihood that the insurer could become insolvent and therefore not able to fulfill its obligations under the insurance policies it issues. This rating can also affect an insurer’s level of premium writings, the lines of business it can write and, for insurers like us that are also public registrants, the market value of its securities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors in addition to those listed here. We have set forth additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Risks Relating to Our Business • The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are unpredictable and may adversely affect the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophic events affecting multiple policyholders, which can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, fires, explosions, earthquakes, tropical storms and terrorist acts. Property damage resulting from catastrophes is the greatest risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our business. We have exposure for catastrophe losses under both our commercial insurance policies and our personal insurance policies. In addition, our automobile and inland marine business exposes us to losses arising from floods and other perils. Longer-term weather trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, including effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperature, sea levels, rain and snow. The emerging science regarding climate change and its connection to extreme weather events is far from conclusive. If a connection to increased extreme weather events related to climate change is ultimately proven true, this could increase the frequency and severity of catastrophe losses we experience in both coastal and non-coastal areas. 10 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 Because the occurrence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may vary significantly from year to year, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations. In addition, as with catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for us to determine our ultimate losses associated with a particular catastrophic event. As our claims experience for a particular catastrophe develops, we may be required to adjust our reserves to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. Catastrophes may also negatively affect our ability to write new business. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property could impact claims severity for future catastrophic events. In addition, severity may be impacted after catastrophic events as the demand for resources such as building materials and labor to repair damaged structures may inflate costs, and the amount of salvage value received for damaged property may decline. • Our reserves for property and casualty insurance losses and costs related to settlement of property and casualty losses and our life reserves for future policy benefits may be inadequate, which would have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our reserves for claims and future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate, which may result in future charges to earnings and/or a downgrade of our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish property and casualty loss reserves based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. On a quarterly basis, Regnier Consulting Group, Inc., the independent actuary for our property and casualty segment, estimates property and casualty product reserves based on many assumptions to validate the reasonableness of our claims reserves. Our property and casualty loss reserves are only estimates; we determine the amount of these loss reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and costs we will incur on existing insurance policies. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the ultimate amounts of benefits and claims that we will pay or the timing of payment of benefits and claims. For a detailed discussion of our reserving process and the factors we consider in estimating reserves, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Actual losses and loss settlement expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our loss reserves are insufficient, or if we believe our loss reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and loss settlement expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves and incur charges to our earnings, which could indicate that premium levels were insufficient. These charges may be material. Griffith, Ballard & Company, the independent actuary for our life insurance segment, calculates life product reserves based on our assumptions, including estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. • The cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance business may affect our financial performance. The financial results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “soft” markets), followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “hard” markets). We expect these cycles to continue. Premium rates for property and casualty insurance are influenced by factors that are outside of our control, including market and competitive conditions and regulatory issues. Soft market conditions could require us to reduce premiums, limit premium increases, or discontinue offering one or more of our insurance products in one or more states, resulting in a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. Fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on the results of our operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • We are subject to interest rate fluctuations and declines in the value of investments held in our investment portfolio due to various market factors that could negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations and to declines in the value of our investment portfolio due to changes in market valuations and changes in credit quality related to individual investments. Some of our interest-sensitive products, principally our fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” which is the difference between the rates we are required to pay under these contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support our obligations under these contracts. During periods when the interest rates paid on interest-sensitive insurance products are rising, we may not be able to reinvest our invested assets to achieve the higher rate of return necessary to compensate for the higher interest rates we must pay to keep these products competitive in the marketplace. Consequently, we may have to accept a lower spread and therefore lower profitability, or face a decline in sales of these products and a loss of related assets. During periods of declining interest rates, we may be unable to achieve similar rates of return on our reinvested or maturing assets. Moreover, this risk may be exacerbated by borrowers prepaying fixed income securities, commercial mortgages, and mortgage-backed securities held in our investment portfolio in order to refinance at lower rates. Because we are only entitled to reset the interest rates on our annuities at limited, pre-established intervals, and because many of our annuity contracts have guaranteed interest rates, the profitability of these products could decrease or even become negative. Due to the reinvestment risk described above, a decline in market interest rates available on investments could also reduce our return from investments of capital that do not support particular policy obligations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The adverse effect on us from fluctuations in interest rates may be exacerbated because we currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, a large portion (92.7 percent at December 31, 2009) of our investment portfolio in fixed income securities, particularly corporate bonds, including our portfolio of trading securities. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates. We classify the majority (99.0 percent, at December 31, 2009) of our fixed income securities as available-for-sale, including our portfolio of trading securities. We report the value of those investments at their current fair value. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the valuation of our fixed income investments, which would affect our stockholders’ equity. Fluctuations in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals from our life insurance and annuity products. In periods of rising interest rates, surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with policy loans, may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. These surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”), which would increase our expenses in the current period. The fair value of securities in our investment portfolio may also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions or events relating to a particular issuer of securities. Changes in the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio could result in realized or unrealized investment losses, thereby affecting our stockholders’ equity. We are exposed to the chance that issuers of bonds that we hold will not be able to pay principal or interest when it is due. Defaults and other impairments may cause write-downs in the value of the bonds we hold. Pervasive deterioration in the credit quality of issuers, changes in interest rate levels and changes in interest rate spreads between types of investments could significantly affect the value of our invested assets and our earnings. 12 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • Financial disruption or a prolonged economic downturn may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. Moreover, many companies are experiencing reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital. In the event that these conditions persist or result in a prolonged economic downturn, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of recent financial events, we may face increased regulation. Many of the other risk factors discussed in this section identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, financial economic downturn. These include risks related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, emerging claims and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. • The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues and class action litigation on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and/or size of claims. Examples of these issues include: • Judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability. • An increase of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation regarding claims handling and other practices. • An increase in the variety, number and size of claims relating to liability losses, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions. • Adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressure in medical cost and auto and home repair costs. In addition, we have been the target of a number of class action lawsuits arising from Hurricane Katrina relating to allegations of improper claims settlement practices, misrepresentations in the scope of coverage and other matters. It is difficult to predict both the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, and the impact, if any, they will have on our business and financial condition. However, rulings adverse to us in pending litigation arising from Hurricane Katrina could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, as well as on our results of operations. • We are exposed to credit risk in certain areas of our operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recovery, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the amounts due from independent agents and brokers. We are exposed to credit risk through our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our bonded principal will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk during a period of economic downturn. While we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to credit risk could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • We are subject to comprehensive laws and regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the states in which we operate. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is, and will continue to be, critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following: • Required licensing. We, and our insurance company subsidiaries, operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to revoke an existing license or deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to continue to sell insurance or to enter or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired. • Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. When our loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may resist or delay our efforts to raise premium rates in the future, even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to premium rate increases. If premium rate increases we deem necessary are not approved, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. State regulatory authorities may even impose premium rate rollbacks or require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, affecting our profitability. If insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state could be substantially impaired. • Restrictions on cancellation, nonrenewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company’s ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. For example, the State of Louisiana has a law prohibiting the nonrenewal of homeowners policies written for longer than three years except under certain circumstances, such as for nonpayment of premium or fraud committed by the insured. • Risk-based capital and capital adequacy requirements. We, and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate, are subject to risk-based capital requirements (“RBC requirements”) that require us to report our results of risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. Any failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us or our subsidiaries and affiliate to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. • Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between us, our subsidiary insurance companies and our affiliate generally must be disclosed to, and in some cases approved by, state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. • Required participation in guaranty funds and assigned risk pools. Certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations where participating insurers are required to provide coverage for assigned risks. The number of risks assigned to us by these plans is based on our share of total written premium in the voluntary insurance market for that state. Pricing is controlled by the plan, often restricting our ability to charge the premium rate we might otherwise charge. Wherever possible, we utilize a designated servicing carrier to fulfill our obligations under these plans. Designated servicing carriers charge us fee to issue policies, adjust and settle claims and handle administrative reporting on our behalf. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired premium rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. While these facilities are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, the exposure to assessments and our ability to recoup these assessments through adequate premium rate increases may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period, due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These state funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors. 14 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • Restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of investments. The various states in which we operate have certain restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of our investments. Generally speaking, these regulations require us to be conservative in the nature and quality of our investments and restrict our ability to invest in riskier, but often higher yield investments. These restrictions may make it more difficult for us to obtain our desired investment results. • State and federal tax laws. Under current federal and state income tax law, our life insurance and annuity products receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give these products a competitive advantage over other noninsurance products. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products, making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. • Periodic financial and market conduct examinations. We are subject to periodic financial and market conduct examinations by the insurance departments in the various states in which we operate. Generally, it is only those states in which we have a company incorporated that perform such examinations. Occasionally, however, we are examined by states in which we do not have a company incorporated. The costs of these examinations are borne by us and in any given year may contribute to our administrative expenses. • Terrorism Risk Insurance. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 and its successor, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (collectively, the “Terrorism Acts”) require the federal government and the insurance industry to share in insured losses up to $100 billion per year resulting from future terrorist attacks within the United States. For further information about the Terrorism Acts, and their effect on our operations, refer to the information in the Results of Operations section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These laws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely premium rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets and otherwise continue to operate our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face individual, group and class action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks could have a negative effect on our profitability. • Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in our facilities, networks or databases, or those of our vendors, could result in loss or theft of data and information or systems’ interruptions that may expose us to liability and have an adverse impact on our business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of our data could harm our reputation and business. There can be no assurances that we will be able to implement security measures adequate to prevent every security breach. 15 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • A reduction in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based on criteria established by the agencies. Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1994 (except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable)). Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. Our property and casualty companies are rated on a group basis. Financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agency. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or could lead to increased borrowing costs in the future. Perceptions of our company by investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired. We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on our ratings by this agency. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and policyholders to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If A.M. Best downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we will not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our premium revenue and earnings would decrease. For example, many of our agencies and policyholders have guidelines that require us to have an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” or higher. A reduction of our A.M. Best ratings below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to a majority of our current policyholders or other potential policyholders with similar ratings requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade for our property and casualty insurers by A.M. Best below “A” would constitute an event of default under our credit facility. • Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely manner, or at all. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of the risk that we and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate underwrite. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions that are beyond our control. The availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase may affect the level of our business and profitability. Although we purposely work with several reinsurance intermediaries and reinsurers, we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable premium rates. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophic events within one policy year. Because our current catastrophe reinsurance program only allows for one automatic reinstatement at an additional reinstatement premium, we would be required to obtain a new catastrophe reinsurance policy to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Such coverage may be difficult to obtain, particularly if it is necessary to do so during hurricane season following the second catastrophe. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk will increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we will have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Our ability to collect reinsurance recoverables may be subject to uncertainty. Our losses must meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract. Reinsurers must also have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Particularly, following a major catastrophic event, our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • Our geographic concentration in both our property and casualty insurance and life insurance segments ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions of certain states. The following states provided 56.5 percent of the direct premium volume for the property and casualty insurance segment in 2009: Texas (15.4 percent), Iowa (15.3 percent), Louisiana (9.2 percent), Missouri (9.1 percent) and Colorado (7.5 percent). The following states provided 74.0 percent of the direct statutory premium volume for the life insurance segment in 2009: Iowa (36.8 percent), Nebraska (12.9 percent), Minnesota (9.0 percent), Wisconsin (8.4 percent) and Illinois (6.9 percent). Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized natural perils, such as hurricanes or hailstorms, is increased in those areas where we have written a significant amount of property insurance policies. • We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and reduce our revenue and profitability. The insurance industry is highly competitive. In our property and casualty insurance business and in our life insurance business, we compete, and will continue to compete, with many major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and smaller regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies, and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have far greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our premium revenue and our profitability could decline if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. Our profitability could also be affected by the entry of new competitors into the market and the development of new products by new and existing competitors. We price our insurance products based on estimated profit margins, and we would not be able to significantly reduce our current estimated profit margins in the near future. Some of our competitors may be larger and have more capital than we do, and may be able to withstand significant reductions in their profit margins. If our competitors decide to target our policyholder base by offering lower-priced insurance, we may not be able to respond competitively, which could reduce our revenue and our profitability. • Our business depends on the uninterrupted operations of our facilities, systems and business functions. Our business depends on our employees’ ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal policies and claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our facilities or a failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U. S. and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the U. S., Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting geographical concentrations in key metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. 17 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 In the event that a natural disaster or a terrorist act occurs, our company and employees could be directly adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event. We have an emergency preparedness plan that consists of the information and procedures required to enable rapid recovery from an occurrence, such as natural disaster or business disruption, which could potentially disable us for an extended period of time. This plan was tested during 2008, both by the Midwest flooding that affected our corporate headquarters in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and by Hurricane Ike that affected our Gulf Coast regional office in Galveston, Texas. Risks Relating to our Common Stock • As an insurance company, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by state law. We are an insurance company domiciled in the State of Iowa and, as a result, we are subject to Iowa insurance laws restricting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity standards and laws that prohibit us from paying dividends except from the earned profits arising from our business. Our ability to pay dividends also depends upon the statutory capital and surplus levels and earnings of our subsidiary insurance companies and the ability of our subsidiary insurance companies to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our subsidiary insurance companies are restricted by state insurance laws similar to those laws that restrict our payment of dividends. As a result of these restrictions, at times we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock, or we may be required to seek prior approval from the applicable regulatory authority before we can pay any such dividends. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. • The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • Variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results. • Investor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and our company in particular. • Market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market. • Major catastrophic events. • Departure of our key personnel. • Certain provisions of our organizational documents, as well as applicable insurance laws, could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management, prevent the sale of our company or prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the direction of our company, each of which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable laws governing corporations and insurance companies, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example: • Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our stockholders, our stockholders have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual stockholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors. • Our articles of incorporation limit the rights of stockholders to call special stockholder meetings. 18 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 • Our articles of incorporation set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors at nine and the maximum at 15, and they require approval of holders of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to amend these provisions. • Our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to approve any plan of merger, consolidation, or sale or exchange of all, or substantially all, of our assets. • Our Board of Directors may fill vacancies on the Board of Directors. • Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. • Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10.0 percent or more of our common stock. • Section 490.624A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act authorizes the terms and conditions of stock rights or options issued by us to include restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer, or receipt of such rights or options by a person, or group of persons, owning or offering to acquire a specified number or percentage of the outstanding common shares or other securities of the corporation. Further, the insurance laws of Iowa and the states in which our subsidiary insurance companies are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring direct or indirect control of us or our insurance company subsidiaries, generally defined as owning or having the power to vote 10.0 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, without the prior written approval of state regulators. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and these state laws governing corporations and insurance companies, may discourage potential acquisition proposals. These provisions and state laws may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, in particular through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or our company’s management may be unsuccessful, and the existence of such provisions may adversely affect market prices for our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2009 