Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks, some of which are set forth below to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Given these risks and 14 Table of Contents uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses since inception, expect to incur additional losses in the future as we continue our development activities and may never achieve sustained revenues or profitability. Our only revenue to date has been collaboration revenue under our collaboration agreement with Astellas Pharma Inc., or Astellas, and our former collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc., or Pfizer. MDV3100 has not received marketing approval, and we do not know when or if it will receive marketing approval or become commercially available. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur substantial additional losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to finance clinical and preclinical studies of MDV3100 and potential future product candidates, potential launch costs of MDV3100 should that agent receive marketing approval, and our corporate overhead costs. Our operating losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. We do not know when or if we will ever generate any additional revenue, including any milestone payments, profit sharing payments or royalty payments under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, or become cash-flow positive, because of the significant uncertainties with respect to our ability to generate product revenue from, and obtain approval from the FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for, MDV3100 or future product candidates. Because we depend on financing from third parties for our operations, our business may fail if such financing becomes unavailable or is offered on commercially unreasonable terms. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private and public offerings of our common stock and from up-front, development milestone and cost-sharing payments received pursuant to our collaboration agreement with Astellas and our former collaboration agreement with Pfizer. As of December 31, 2011 we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $145.1 million available to fund our operations. Based upon our current expectations, we believe our capital resources at December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to fund our currently planned operations for the next 12 months. This estimate is based on a number of assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could exhaust our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments earlier than presently anticipated. We may be required or choose to seek additional capital within the next 12 months to expand our clinical development activities for MDV3100 based on the positive results of our Phase 3 AFFIRM trial in post-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer patients, to fund costs of planning for and executing a commercial launch of MDV3100, should it receive marketing approval, if we face challenges or delays in connection with our clinical trials or the potential approval and commercialization of MDV3100, or to maintain minimum cash balances that we deem reasonable and prudent. In addition, we intend to evaluate the capital markets from time to time to determine whether to raise additional capital in the form of equity, convertible debt or otherwise, depending on market conditions relative to our need for funds at such time, and we may seek to raise additional capital within the next 12 months should we conclude that such capital is available on terms that we consider to be in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur substantial additional losses for the foreseeable future as we pursue regulatory approval for, and, if approved, commercial launch of, MDV3100 and continue to finance clinical and preclinical studies of MDV3100 and potential future product candidates and our corporate overhead costs. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including without limitation: • potential launch costs of MDV3100, should that agent receive marketing approval for post-chemotherapy patients; • the timing and magnitude of any potential sales of MDV3100, should that agent receive marketing approval for post-chemotherapy patients; 15 Table of Contents • whether any changes are made to the scope of our ongoing clinical development activities; • the scope and results of our and our collaboration partner’s preclinical and clinical trials; • whether we experience delays in our preclinical and clinical development programs, including potential delays in recruiting, or inability to recruit, patients into our ongoing PREVAIL trial of MDV3100 in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer as a result of the availability of Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), which was approved by the FDA in April 2011 for post-chemotherapy patients, or other investigational and approved prostate cancer therapies, including MDV3100 itself should that agent be approved to treat post-chemotherapy patients, or slower than anticipated product development; • whether opportunities to acquire additional product candidates arise and the timing and costs of acquiring and developing those product candidates; • whether we are able to enter into additional third-party collaborative partnerships to develop and/or commercialize potential future product candidates on terms, including development cost share terms, that are acceptable to us; • the timing and requirements of, and the costs involved in, conducting studies required to obtain regulatory approvals for MDV3100 or potential future product candidates from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies; • the availability of third parties to perform the key development tasks for MDV3100 and potential future product candidates, including conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates to be tested in those studies, and the associated costs of those services; • expenses associated with the pending purported securities class action lawsuits, as well as any other litigation; and • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending the validity of and enforcing patent claims and other costs related to patent rights and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. Our current view of the worldwide capital markets is that they are extremely volatile with limited accessibility, and many biotechnology companies have had limited or no success in obtaining funding in this environment. Continuation of this challenging market climate may significantly limit our ability to raise funds, and there can be no assurance we will be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we could be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs and other operations. We may seek to raise additional funds through public or private financing or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing would be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Our failure to raise capital when needed may harm our business and operating results. Even if we receive regulatory approval of MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates, which we may never do, we must successfully commercialize such products before we can become profitable. It is not unusual for new pharmaceutical products to be commercially unsuccessful or achieve a lower than expected level of commercial success. We expect to incur substantial expenses associated with our commercialization efforts even prior to obtaining regulatory approval of such product candidates, including MDV3100, as well as thereafter. We may never generate significant revenues and, even if we do generate revenues, the magnitude of those revenues may never be sufficient for us to achieve or sustain profitability. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in research and development to a company also potentially involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. Although certain of our employees have commercialization experience, as a company we currently have only limited commercial capabilities. To be prepared to perform our co-promotion activities for MDV3100, should it be approved in the U.S., we will need to expand our organization substantially, including 16 Table of Contents marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us, which will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal commercial capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of MDV3100 in the event it receives regulatory approval. If we are not successful in commercializing MDV3100 or potential future product candidates in the event they receive regulatory approval, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize MDV3100 and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts effectively, and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. Our business strategy depends on our ability to identify and acquire additional product candidates which we may never acquire or identify for reasons that may not be in our control, or are otherwise unforeseen or unforeseeable to us. A key component of our business strategy is to diversify our product development risk by identifying and acquiring new product opportunities for development. However, we may not be able to identify promising new technologies. In addition, the competition to acquire promising biomedical technologies is fierce, and many of our competitors are large, multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies with considerably more financial, development and commercialization resources and experience than we have. Thus, even if we succeed in identifying promising technologies, we may not be able to acquire rights to them on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to identify and acquire new technologies, we will be unable to diversify our product risk. We believe that any such failure would have a significant negative impact on our prospects because the risk of failure of any particular development program in the pharmaceutical industry is high. Because we depend on our management to oversee the execution of development plans for MDV3100 and to identify and acquire promising new product candidates, the loss of any of our executive officers would harm our business. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers. We are particularly dependent on the continued services of David Hung, M.D., our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors. Dr. Hung identified MDV3100 for acquisition and has primary responsibility for identifying and evaluating other potential product candidates. We believe that Dr. Hung’s services in this capacity would be difficult to replace. None of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and they may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could delay the development of MDV3100 and delay or preclude the identification and acquisition of new product candidates, either of which events could harm our business. Our reliance on third parties for the operation of our business may result in material delays, cost overruns and/or quality deficiencies in our development programs. We rely on outside vendors to perform key product development tasks, such as conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates at appropriate scale for preclinical and clinical trials and, in situations where we are unable to transfer those responsibilities to a corporate partner, for commercial use as well. In order to manage our business successfully, we will need to identify, engage and properly manage qualified external vendors that will perform these development activities. For example, we need to monitor the activities of our vendors closely to ensure that they are performing their tasks correctly, on time, on budget and in compliance with strictly enforced regulatory standards. Our ability to identify and retain key vendors with the requisite knowledge is critical to our business and the failure to do so could negatively impact our business. Because all of our key vendors perform services for other clients in addition to us, we also need to ensure that they are appropriately prioritizing our projects. If we fail to manage our key vendors well, we could incur material delays, cost overruns or quality deficiencies in our development programs, as well as other material disruptions to our business. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Product Development Candidates Pharmaceutical product candidates require extensive, time-consuming and expensive preclinical and clinical testing to establish safety and efficacy. We may never attract additional partners for our technologies or receive marketing approval in any jurisdiction. The research and development of pharmaceuticals is an extremely risky industry. Only a small percentage of product candidates that enter the development process ever receive marketing approval. MDV3100 is not currently approved for sale anywhere in the world, and it may never receive such approval. The process of conducting the preclinical and clinical testing required to establish safety and efficacy and obtain marketing approval is expensive and uncertain and takes many years. If we are unable to complete preclinical or clinical trials of MDV3100 or future product candidates, or if the results of these trials are not satisfactory to convince regulatory authorities or partners of their safety or efficacy, we will not be able to obtain marketing approval or attract additional partners for those product candidates. Furthermore, even if we or our partners are able to obtain marketing approvals for any of our product candidates, those approvals may be for indications that are not as broad as desired or may contain other limitations that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from sales of those products. If this occurs, our business will be materially harmed and our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired. Because our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial of MDV3100 in pre-chemotherapy patients has overall survival as a primary endpoint, the availability of approved and/or experimental agents that prolong survival, including the approved hormonal agent Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), the approved chemotherapy agents docetaxel and Jevtana (cabazitaxel), and the approved prostate cancer vaccine Provenge (sipuleucel-T), as well as the potential commercial availability of MDV3100 itself should it be approved for post-chemotherapy patients, may make it more difficult for our PREVAIL trial to succeed or may prevent it from succeeding, and could reduce the magnitude of any potential survival benefit that MDV3100 may demonstrate in PREVAIL even if that trial does succeed. Our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer is attempting to demonstrate a statistically significant difference in survival between drug-treated and placebo-treated patients. Overall survival and progression-free survival are the co-primary endpoints in our ongoing PREVAIL trial. Patients participating in our PREVAIL trial may elect to leave the trial and switch to alternative treatments that are, or may in the future become, available to them commercially, such as Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), docetaxel, Jevtana (cabazitaxel), and Provenge (sipuleucel-T), or MDV3100 itself should it be approved for post-chemotherapy patients based on the positive results in the AFFIRM trial. Each of these alternative treatments has demonstrated statistically significant survival benefits of between two and one-half and five months in advanced prostate cancer patients and, except for MDV3100, is commercially available. Patients from our PREVAIL trial may be able to obtain commercial access to these alternative agents notwithstanding the fact that, other than Provenge (sipuleucel-T), none of them has been shown to prolong survival in pre-chemotherapy patients. However, Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) is being studied in an ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating its potential ability to prolong survival in pre-chemotherapy patients, and positive results from that trial could become available at any time. The survival of any patients who leave our PREVAIL trial to take an alternative treatment will continue to be included in the analysis of the trial. Any survival benefit conferred by these alternative treatments may have a negative impact on the results of our PREVAIL trial, particularly in the case of the one-half of all patients in our PREVAIL trial who were randomized to placebo. Patients in our PREVAIL trial are free to leave the trial at any time, and are free to take any alternative treatment once they have left the trial. We have no ability to control or influence either of these decisions. Use of other alternative life-prolonging treatments by patients leaving our PREVAIL trial could make it more difficult for the trial to succeed, could prevent it from succeeding, and could reduce any potential survival benefit that may be demonstrated even if does succeed. Failure of our PREVAIL trial could have significant negative effects on us, including preventing us from obtaining marketing approval in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer, which is a far larger commercial opportunity than post-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer, being required to conduct additional trials, or causing our partner Astellas to elect to terminate our collaboration agreement. Even if our PREVAIL trial succeeds, any negative impact on the survival benefit shown in that trial could reduce or eliminate MDV3100’s ability to compete effectively with other treatments that have shown longer survival benefits. 18 Table of Contents Enrollment and retention of patients in clinical trials is an expensive and time-consuming process, could be made more difficult or rendered impossible by multiple factors outside our control, including the availability of competing treatments or clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication and the results of other studies of our product candidates in the same or other indications, and could result in significant delays, cost overruns, or both, in our product development activities, or in the failure of such activities. We may encounter delays in enrolling, or be unable to enroll, a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our clinical trials, and even once enrolled we may be unable to retain a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our trials. Patient enrollment and retention in clinical trials depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the existing body of safety and efficacy data with respect to the study drug, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. For example, there are multiple ongoing Phase 3 trials competing with our ongoing PREVAIL trial to recruit pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer patients, including an ongoing Phase 3 trial of an investigational agent from Takeda Pharmaceuticals that operates by the same molecular mechanism of action as the approved drug Zytiga (abiraterone acetate). Furthermore, because patients in our PREVAIL trial have a 50% chance of being randomized to placebo, the availability of competing treatments may make it more difficult, or impossible, to complete enrollment in the PREVAIL trial. Such competing treatments include the approved hormonal agent Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), the approved chemotherapy agents Jevtana (cabazitaxel) and docetaxel, and the approved prostate cancer vaccine Provenge (sipuleucel-T), all of which have been shown to prolong overall survival in advanced prostate cancer patients. To date, Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) has been shown to prolong overall survival only in post-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer patients. However, Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) is being studied in an ongoing Phase 3 trial evaluating that drug’s potential ability to prolong overall survival in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer patients, the same population being studied in our PREVAIL trial. Should data from the ongoing Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) Phase 3 trial become available that demonstrate an overall survival benefit in pre-chemotherapy patients, such data could make it more difficult or impossible for us to recruit and retain patients in our PREVAIL trial, as those patients may prefer to take Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) rather than participate in our PREVAIL trial. In addition, should MDV3100 receive marketing approval in post-chemotherapy patients based on the positive results in the AFFIRM trial, patients in our PREVAIL trial may elect to leave the study and attempt to receive MDV3100 commercially, despite the fact that MDV3100 has not been shown to prolong overall survival in pre-chemotherapy patients. Such development could make it more difficult or impossible for us to retain patients in our PREVAIL trial. Furthermore, any negative results we may report in clinical trials of MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates may make it difficult or impossible to recruit and retain patients in other clinical studies of that same product candidate. Delays or failures in planned patient enrollment and/or retention may result in increased costs, program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop MDV3100 or any other product candidates, or could render further development impossible. Positive results from our AFFIRM trial in post-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer may not be predictive of results of our PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer or any of our other ongoing and potential future clinical trials of MDV3100. Product candidates in clinical trials, including Phase 3 clinical trials, often fail to show the desired safety and efficacy outcomes despite having progressed successfully through prior stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Even where we achieve positive results in clinical trials, subsequent clinical trials may fail, even if those subsequent trials are designed very similarly to their predecessors. Accordingly, despite the positive results from our Phase 3 AFFIRM trial of MDV3100 in post-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer, our ongoing Phase 3 PREVAIL trial in pre-chemotherapy advanced prostate cancer, our ongoing Phase 2 TERRAIN trial comparing MDV3100 to bicalutamide, our ongoing Phase 2 study of MDV3100 in hormone-naïve patients, and any other of our ongoing or planned studies of MDV3100 may fail. MDV3100 and any of our other potential future product candidates, should any of them, receive marketing approval, will face significant competition from other approved products and other products in development. The biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive in general. Furthermore, our business strategy is to target large unmet medical needs, and those markets are even more highly competitive. For example, since 2010 a new 19 Table of Contents second-line chemotherapy drug, Jevtana (cabazitaxel), and a new oral hormonal drug, Zytiga (abiraterone acetate), have received marketing approval in the post-chemotherapy CRPC patient population we studied in our Phase 3 AFFIRM trial of MDV3100, and a new prostate cancer vaccine, Provenge (sipuleucel-T), received marketing approval covering both the post-chemotherapy CRPC population we studied in our Phase 3 AFFIRM trial and the chemotherapy-naïve CRPC population we are studying in our Phase 3 PREVAIL trial. Jevtana (cabazitaxel) and Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) have since acquired substantial shares of the market for treatment of post-chemotherapy patients, which may make it more difficult for us to compete successfully in this market, notwithstanding the positive results from our AFFIRM trial. In addition, enrollment has already been completed in a Phase 3 trial of Zytiga (abiraterone acetate) in the chemotherapy-naïve CRPC population we are studying in our Phase 3 PREVAIL trial. Several other drugs are also in advanced clinical development in both populations. Companies currently marketing, or expected to be marketing in the near future, products that will compete directly with any of our investigational drugs that may receive marketing approval include some of the world’s largest and most experienced pharmaceutical companies, such as Johnson & Johnson and sanofi-aventis. There are also multiple additional small molecule and recombinant protein candidates in development targeting advanced prostate cancer, including compounds already in Phase 3 clinical trials. Most, if not all, of these competing drug development programs are being conducted by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with considerably greater financial resources, human resources and experience than ours. Any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval will face significant competition from both approved drugs and from any of the drugs currently under development that may subsequently be approved. Bases upon which our product candidates would have to compete successfully include efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness. In addition, our product candidates would have to compete against these other drugs with several different categories of decision makers, including physicians, patients, government and private third-party payors, technology assessment groups and patient advocacy organizations. For example, Medicare Part B, which covers infused medicines, generally provides lower patient out-of-pocket expenses and better physician economics than does Medicare Part D, which covers oral medicines. One of our primary competitors in post-docetaxel patients, the infused chemotherapy drug Jevtana (cabazitaxel), is reimbursed under Medicare Part B while MDV3100, should it receive marketing approval and be reimbursed by Medicare, would be covered under Medicare Part D. Even if one of our product candidates is approved, we cannot guarantee that we, Astellas or any of our potential future partners will be able to compete successfully on any of these bases. Any future product candidates that we may subsequently acquire will face similar competitive pressures. If we or our partners cannot compete successfully on any of the bases described above, our business will not succeed. MDV3100 and any other potential future product candidate that is eventually approved for sale may not be commercially successful if not widely-covered and appropriately reimbursed by third-party payors at levels that produce patient co-payments that are acceptable and affordable to patients. Third-party payors, including public insurers such as Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers, pay for a large share of health care products and services consumed in the United States. In Europe, Canada and other major international markets, third-party payors also pay for a significant portion of health care products and services and many of those countries have nationalized health care systems in which the government pays for all such products and services and must approve product pricing. Even if approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, MDV3100 and any potential future product candidates are unlikely to achieve commercial success unless they are covered widely by third-party payors and reimbursed at a rate that generates an acceptable commercial return for us and any collaborative partner. In addition, even if they ultimately elect to reimburse our product candidates, most third-party payors will not reimburse 100% of the cost, but rather require a portion of the cost to be borne by the patients themselves. Thus, even if reimbursement is available, the percentage of drug cost required to be borne by the patients may make use of our product candidates financially difficult or impossible for certain patients, which would have a negative impact on sales of our product candidates. It is increasingly difficult to obtain coverage and acceptable reimbursement levels from third-party payors, and we may be unable to achieve these objectives. Achieving coverage and acceptable reimbursement levels typically involves negotiating with individual payors and is a time-consuming and costly process. Moreover, comprehensive health care reform legislation was recently enacted in the United States that substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The new legislation 20 Table of Contents contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including those relating to the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on health care products, changes to enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse provisions, all of which will impact existing government health care programs and will result in the development of new programs. Many of the details regarding the implementation of this legislation have yet to be determined and implementation may ultimately adversely affect our business. Further, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government controls over drug product pricing. We are currently unable to predict what additional legislation or regulations, if any, relating to the pharmaceutical industry or third-party payor coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect the recently enacted federal health care reform legislation or any such additional legislation or regulation will or would have on our business. In addition, we would face competition in such negotiations from other approved drugs against which we compete, which may include other approved drugs marketed by Astellas, and the marketers of such other drugs are likely to be significantly larger than us and therefore enjoy significantly more negotiating leverage with respect to the individual payors than we may have. Our commercial prospects would be further weakened if payors approved coverage for MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates only as second- or later-line treatments, or if they placed any of those product candidates in tiers requiring unacceptably high patient co-payments. Failure to achieve acceptable coverage and reimbursement levels could materially harm our or our partner’s ability to successfully market our product candidates. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Astellas to further develop, manufacture and commercialize MDV3100. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Astellas’ ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize MDV3100 or that result in Astellas terminating our agreement with them. In October 2009, we announced that we had entered into a collaboration agreement with Astellas for the development, manufacture and commercialization of MDV3100 to treat prostate cancer. Under the agreement, Astellas is responsible for developing, seeking regulatory approval for, and commercializing MDV3100 outside the United States and, following a transition period, is responsible globally for all manufacture of product for both clinical and commercial purposes. We and Astellas are jointly responsible for developing, seeking regulatory approval for, and commercializing MDV3100 in the United States. We and Astellas share equally the costs, profits and losses arising from development and commercialization of MDV3100 in the United States. For clinical trials useful both in the United States and in Europe or Japan, we will be responsible for one-third of the total costs and Astellas will be responsible for the remaining two-thirds. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Astellas, including: • Astellas’ right to terminate the collaboration agreement with us on limited notice for convenience (subject to certain limitations), or for other reasons specified in the respective collaboration agreement; • the need for us to identify and secure on commercially reasonable terms the services of third parties to perform key activities currently performed by Astellas in the event that Astellas were to terminate its collaboration with us, including clinical and, if approved, commercial manufacturing, development activities outside of the United States and commercialization activities globally; • adverse decisions by Astellas regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of MDV3100; • decisions by Astellas to prioritize other of its present or future products more highly than MDV3100 for either development and/or commercial purposes; • possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • changes in key management personnel that are members of the collaboration’s various committees; and • possible disagreements with Astellas, including those regarding the development and/or commercialization of products, interpretation of the collaboration agreement and ownership of proprietary rights. 21 Table of Contents Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Astellas, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or potentially commercializing MDV3100 or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If Astellas were to unilaterally terminate our collaborative relationship, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities for MDV3100 solely at our own expense and/or seek one or more other partners for some or all of these activities, worldwide. If we pursued these activities on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, might limit the indications we are able to pursue for MDV3100, and could prevent us from effectively developing and potentially commercializing MDV3100. If we sought to find one or more other pharmaceutical company partners for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in collaborations that have us expending greater funds and efforts than our current relationship with Astellas. We are dependent on the efforts of, and funding by, Astellas for the development of MDV3100. Under the terms of the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, we and Astellas must agree on any changes to the development plan for MDV3100 that is set forth in the agreement. If we and Astellas cannot agree on any such changes, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, Astellas is generally free to terminate the agreement at its discretion on limited notice to us. Similarly, in the event of an uncured material breach of the agreement by us, Astellas may elect to terminate the agreement, in which case all rights to develop and commercialize MDV3100 will revert to us. If Astellas terminates its co-funding of our MDV3100 program, we may be unable to fund the development and potential commercialization costs on our own and may be unable to find another partner, which could force us to raise additional capital or could cause our MDV3100 program to fail. In addition, Astellas is solely responsible for the development and regulatory approval of MDV3100 outside the United States, so we are entirely dependent on Astellas for the successful completion of those activities. The financial returns to us, if any, under our collaboration agreement with Astellas depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones, plus a share of any profits from any product sales in the United States and royalties on any product sales outside of the United States. Therefore, our success, and any associated financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in large part on the performance of Astellas under the Astellas Collaboration Agreement. If Astellas fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development, potential regulatory approval or commercialization of MDV3100 would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected for that reason. We are dependent on the efforts of Astellas to market and promote MDV3100 if approved for commercial sale. Under our collaboration with Astellas, we and Astellas have the right to co-promote MDV3100 to all customers in the United States, and Astellas has the sole right to promote MDV3100 to all customers outside of the United States. We are thus partially dependent on Astellas to successfully promote MDV3100 in the United States and solely dependent on Astellas to successfully promote MDV3100 outside of the United States. We have limited ability to direct Astellas in its potential commercialization of MDV3100 in any country, including the United States. If Astellas fails to adequately market and promote MDV3100, whether inside or outside of the United States, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Astellas. If this were to happen, any sales of MDV3100 may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We are dependent on Astellas to manufacture clinical and commercial requirements of MDV3100, which could result in the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval or lost sales. Under our agreement with Astellas, after a transition period, Astellas has the primary right and responsibility to manufacture and/or manage the supply of MDV3100 for clinical trials and all commercial requirements. We are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing obligations for MDV3100 to Astellas. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on Astellas to supply MDV3100. Astellas may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, and shortage of qualified personnel. Astellas may not perform as agreed or may default in their obligations to supply clinical trial supplies 22 Table of Contents and/or commercial product. Astellas may fail to deliver the required quantities of MDV3100 on a timely basis. Any such failure by Astellas could delay our future clinical trials and our applications for regulatory approval, or, if approved for commercial sale, could impair our ability to meet the market demand for MDV3100 and therefore result in decreased sales. If Astellas does not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses, delays, or both, to arrange or take responsibility for other third parties to manufacture MDV3100 on our behalf, as we do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities. If Astellas’ business strategies change, any such changes may adversely affect our collaborative relationship with Astellas. Astellas may change its business strategy. Decisions by Astellas to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the prostate cancer field, to emphasize other competitive agents currently in its portfolio at the expense of MDV3100, or to add additional competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentives to continue to develop, seek regulatory approval for, or potentially commercialize MDV3100. For example, Astellas has partnered with us based in part on Astellas’ desire to use MDV3100 as a component of building a global oncology franchise, which Astellas presently does not have. If Astellas’ strategic objective of building a global oncology franchise were to change, such change could negatively impact any commercial prospects of MDV3100. Our industry is highly regulated by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies. We must comply with extensive, strictly enforced regulatory requirements in order to develop and obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Before we, Astellas or any potential future partners can obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, our product candidates must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. The preclinical and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulation by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. We are required to obtain and maintain an effective IND application to commence human clinical trials in the United States and must obtain and maintain additional regulatory approvals before proceeding to successive phases of our clinical trials. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy for its intended use. It takes years to complete the testing of a new drug or medical device and development delays and/or failure can occur at any stage of testing. Any of our present and future clinical trials may be delayed or halted due to any of the following: • any preclinical test or clinical trial may fail to produce safety and efficacy results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • as we experienced with dimebon, negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are ongoing or have been completed and were successful; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; • the FDA might not approve the clinical processes or facilities that we utilize, or the processes or facilities of our consultants, including without limitation the vendors who will be manufacturing drug substance and drug product for us or any potential collaborators; • any regulatory approval we, Astellas or any potential future collaborators ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and 23 Table of Contents • we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in FDA policies or the policies of foreign regulatory authorities during the period in which we develop a product candidate or the period required for review of any final regulatory approval before we are able to market any product candidate. In addition, information generated during the clinical trial process is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval at any stage of the approval process. Failure to demonstrate adequately the quality, safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the applicable product candidate. There can be no assurance that if clinical trials are completed, either we or our collaborative partners will submit applications for required authorizations to manufacture or market potential products or that any such application will be reviewed and approved by appropriate regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if at all. If MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates cannot be manufactured in a cost-effective manner and in compliance with current GMP and other applicable regulatory standards, they will not be commercially successful. All pharmaceutical and medical device products in the United States, Europe and other countries must be manufactured in strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable regulatory standards. Establishing a cGMP-compliant process to manufacture pharmaceutical products involves significant time, cost and uncertainty. Furthermore, in order to be commercially viable, any such process would have to yield product on a cost-effective basis, using raw materials that are commercially available on acceptable terms. We face the risk that our contract manufacturers may have interruptions in raw material supplies, be unable to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements, or, for other reasons beyond their or our control, be unable to complete their manufacturing responsibilities on time, on budget, or at all. Under our collaboration agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for all manufacture of MDV3100 for commercial purposes, but we cannot guarantee that Astellas will be able to supply MDV3100 in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, commercial manufacturing processes have not yet been validated for MDV3100. We thus cannot guarantee that commercial-scale cGMP manufacture of MDV3100 will be possible, on a cost-effective basis or at all, which would materially and adversely affect the value of these programs. We may be subject to product liability or other litigation, which could result in an inefficient allocation of our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy and, if successful, materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition as a result of the costs of liabilities that may be imposed thereby. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. If MDV3100 or any potential future product candidate harms people, or is alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, corporate partners or others. We have product liability insurance covering our ongoing clinical trials, but do not have insurance for any of our other development activities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant litigation costs and liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for injuries allegedly caused by any of our product candidates, our litigation costs and liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. In addition, we may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Any litigation to which we are subject, including the purported securities class action lawsuits described in the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation that may arise from time to time may adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property Intellectual property protection for our product candidates is crucial to our business, and is subject to a significant degree of legal risk, particularly in the life sciences industry. The success of our business will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection—primarily patent protection—of our technologies and MDV3100 and any potential future product candidates, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We and our collaborators will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us or our potential future collaborators to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Further, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be granted or enforced for our patents or for third-party patents that we have licensed. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and future issued patents, or those of our licensors, may not provide a basis for protecting commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties and invalidated or rendered unenforceable; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable. Our existing and any future patent rights may not adequately protect MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates, which could prevent us from ever generating any revenues or profits. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending or future patent applications will mature into issued patents, or that any of our current or future issued patents will adequately protect MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates from competitors. For example, there is a large body of prior art, including multiple issued patents and published patent applications, disclosing molecules in the same chemical class as our licensed MDV300 series compounds. Since our licensed MDV300 series compounds include approximately 170 specific molecules, we expect that some members of this series may not be patentable in light of this prior art, or may infringe the claims of patents presently issued or issued in the future. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that any of our present or future issued patents will not be challenged by third parties, or that they will withstand any such challenge. If we are not able to obtain adequate protection for, or defend, the intellectual property position of our technologies and product candidates, then we may not be able to attract collaborators to acquire or partner our development programs. Further, even if we can obtain protection for and defend the intellectual property position of our technologies and product candidates, we or any of our potential future collaborators still may not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing drugs. Should this occur, we and our potential future collaborators may not generate any revenues or profits from our product candidates or our revenue or profits would be significantly decreased. We could become subject to litigation or other challenges regarding intellectual property rights, which could divert management attention, cause us to incur significant costs, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and/or subject us to competition by lower priced generic products. In recent years, there 25 Table of Contents has been significant litigation in the United States and elsewhere involving pharmaceutical patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have been very aggressive in challenging the validity of patents held by proprietary pharmaceutical companies, especially if these patents are commercially significant. If MDV3100 or any future product candidates succeed, we may face similar challenges to our existing or future patents. If a generic pharmaceutical company or other third party were able to successfully invalidate any of our present or future patents, MDV3100 and any potential future product candidates that may ultimately receive marketing approval could face additional competition from lower priced generic products that would result in significant price and revenue erosion and have a significantly negative impact on the commercial viability of the affected product candidate(s). In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend our activities in response to alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation, or a narrowing of the scope, of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to litigate and resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • discontinue our products that use or are covered by the challenged intellectual property; or • obtain from the owner of the allegedly infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance does not cover potential claims of this type. In addition, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face other challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings and re-examination proceedings. Any such challenge, if successful, could result in the invalidation of, or in a narrowing of the scope of, any of our patents and patent applications subject to the challenge. Any such challenges, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend and resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement in order to protect our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not prevail in making these claims. We rely on license agreements for certain aspects of our product candidates and our technology. We may in the future need to obtain additional licenses of third-party technology that may not be available to us or are available only on commercially unreasonable terms, and which may cause us to operate our business in a more costly or otherwise adverse manner that was not anticipated. We have entered into agreements with third-party commercial and academic institutions to license intellectual property rights and technology for use in our product candidates. For example, we have a license agreement with UCLA pursuant to which we were granted exclusive worldwide rights to certain UCLA patents related to our MDV300 series compounds. Some of these license agreements, including our license agreement with UCLA, contain diligence and milestone-based termination provisions, in which case our failure to meet any agreed upon diligence requirements or milestones may allow the licensor to terminate the agreement. If our licensors terminate our license agreements or if we are unable to maintain the exclusivity of our exclusive license agreements, we may be unable to continue to develop and commercialize MDV3100 or any potential future product candidates based on licensed intellectual property rights and technology. From time to time we may be required to license technology from additional third parties to develop MDV3100 and any future product candidates. For example, the commercial scale manufacturing processes that we are developing for MDV3100 may require licenses to third-party technology. Should we be required to obtain 26 Table of Contents licenses to any third-party technology, including any such patents based on biological activities or required to manufacture our product candidates, such licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop any of our product candidates could cause us to abandon any related development efforts, which could seriously harm our business and operations. We may become involved in disputes with Astellas or any potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant impact on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaboration agreements, including our collaboration agreement with Astellas, may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors generally have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. Trade secrets may not provide adequate protection for our business and technology. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or any potential collaborators’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We have been named as a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit. This lawsuit could result in substantial damages and may divert management’s time and attention from our business and operations. In March 2010, the first of several putative securities class action lawsuits was commenced in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, naming as defendants us and certain of our officers. The lawsuits are largely identical and allege violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that we disseminated false and misleading statements about the effectiveness of dimebon for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. The plaintiffs purport to seek damages, an award of their costs and injunctive relief on behalf of a class of stockholders who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between September 21, 2006 and March 2, 2010. The actions were consolidated in September 2010 and, in April 2011, the court entered an order appointing Catoosa Fund, L.P. and its attorneys as lead plaintiff and lead counsel. Thereafter, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint, which was dismissed without prejudice as to all defendants in August 2011. The lead plaintiff filed a second amended complaint in November 2011. In January 2012, we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which is scheduled to be heard by the Court on March 16, 2012. Our management believes that we have meritorious defenses and intends to defend this lawsuit vigorously. However, this lawsuit is subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual cost will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of the suit and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time 27 Table of Contents consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation and, although we believe the Company is entitled to coverage under the relevant insurance policies, subject to a $350,000 retention, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from this matter, as this lawsuit is currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve this matter or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages, or possibly fines, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending litigation could lead to more volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may be volatile, and our stockholders’ investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for our securities and those of other life sciences companies have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this Annual Report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • the receipt or failure to receive the additional funding necessary to conduct our business; • the progress and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates conducted by us, Astellas or any future collaborative partners or licensees, if any, and any delays in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to complete clinical trials of our product candidates; • the announcement by our competitors of results from clinical trials of their products or product candidates; • selling by existing stockholders and short-sellers; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaboration with Astellas or any future collaborations; • publicity regarding us, our product candidates or those of our competitors, including research reports published by securities analysts; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • litigation, including the purported securities class action lawsuits pending against us and certain of our officers; • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not expect for the foreseeable future to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon, among other factors, our success in completing sales or partnerships of our programs, our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and applicable law. Our principal stockholders exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to your interests. Certain stockholders and their affiliates own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have the power to direct our affairs and be able to determine the outcome of certain matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Because a limited number of persons controls us, transactions could be difficult or impossible to complete without the support of those persons. Subject to applicable law, it is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to your interests. 28 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless its application has been waived, provides certain default anti-takeover protections in connection with transactions between us and an “interested stockholder.” Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or the vote of two-thirds of the shares held by the independent stockholders. Our board of directors has also adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. Additionally, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including without limitation, the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market that were previously restricted from sale, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In the event that we do raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the dilution represented by the additional shares of our equity securities in the public market could cause our stock price to fall, in which case investors may not be able to sell their shares of our equity securities at a price equal to or above the price they paid to acquire them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 