Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Operating in the banking industry exposes United to certain risks. The following are comments regarding the most significant risks and uncertainties that could affect United’s business. Changing Interest Rates. The most significant component in United’s net income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. This difference is referred to as interest rate spread. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent 16 changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates can adversely affect interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability. United cannot guarantee that interest rate risk can be minimized. In addition, interest rates also affect the amount of money available to lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing also increases. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates can materially and adversely affect net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, customer retention and business development. See discussion concerning Net Interest Income in “Item 7-Management Discussion & Analysis”. The Allowance For Loan Losses May Not Be Adequate To Cover Actual Loan Losses, Which Could Adversely Affect Net Income. Heritage Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses in an amount that management believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While management strives to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. Heritage Bank cannot be sure that deteriorating loans will be identified before they become nonperforming assets, or that management will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Future additions to the allowance may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, resulting from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance requirements. Additionally, state banking regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require Heritage Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses which could have a negative effect on United’s financial condition and results of operation. Loan Portfolio Credit Risk. Heritage Bank’s loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. These types of loans generally are viewed as having a higher risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently issued a pronouncement alerting banks to their concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on financial results. United Relies On Dividends From Heritage Bank For Revenue, And Federal And State Law Can Limit Dividends That The Bank Pays To The Holding Company. As a bank holding company, United is dependent on dividends from Heritage Bank. United uses these dividends to pay dividends on United common stock and to pay interest and principal on debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends that Heritage Bank may pay to United. Also, United’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon Heritage Bank’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Federal And State Regulations Can Restrict Our Business, And Non-Compliance Could Result Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. United and its subsidiary bank Heritage Bank are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole. This regulation is not designed to protect the holding company’s shareholders. Federal and state regulatory authorities could put restrictions on our operations, and United could be fined or otherwise penalized if United is found to be out of compliance with regulations that apply to our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that United’s management evaluate its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting. United’s auditors may in the future be required to express an opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. United is also required to 17 disclose, in its annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in its internal control. The management of United cannot assure that one or more material weaknesses will not be found as of the end of any given year. The Patriot Act, which was enacted in the wake of the September 2001 terrorist attacks, requires Heritage Bank to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. A Downturn In The Montana Real Estate Market Or Economy Could Hurt Heritage Bank’s Business. A downturn in real estate or the general economy in Montana could hurt Heritage Bank’s business because many of our loans are secured by real estate in Montana. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and Heritage Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 62% of Heritage Bank’s net loans receivable consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. A significant portion of Heritage Bank’s real property collateral is located in Montana. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. United Continually Encounters Technological Change, And May Have Fewer Resources Than Its Competitors To Continue To Invest In Technological Improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of United’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. United cannot assure that it will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Our Business And Financial Condition May Be Adversely Affected By An Increase In Competition. The banking business in Montana is highly competitive and is currently dominated by a number of large regional financial institutions. In addition to these regional banks, there are a number of smaller commercial banks that operate in these areas. Heritage Bank competes for loans and deposits with banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies, credit unions, and mortgage bankers. In addition to traditional financial institutions, we also compete for loans with brokerage and investment banking companies, and governmental agencies that make available low-cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Particularly in times of high interest rates, we also face significant competition for deposits from sellers of short-term money market securities as well as other corporate and government securities. By virtue of their larger capital bases or affiliation with larger multibank holding companies, many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and lending limits than Heritage Bank has and perform other functions that we offer only through correspondents. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, greater competition in our primary service areas. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by an increase in competition. Moreover, recently enacted and proposed legislation has focused on expanding the ability of participants in the banking and thrift industries to engage in other lines of business. The enactment of such legislation could put us at a competitive disadvantage because we may not have the capital to participate in other lines of business to the same extent as more highly capitalized financial service holding companies. 18 United Relies Heavily On Our Management, And The Loss Of Any Of Our Senior Officers May Adversely Affect Our Operations. United is dependent on the continued services of a small number of executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect United’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure to recruit and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on United’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 