Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Readers of this document should not rely unduly on any forward-looking statements, which reflect only our management's belief as of the date of this report and should consider all uncertainties and risks disclosed throughout this document and in our other reports to the SEC, including, but not limited to, those discussed below. Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, future prospects, results of operations or financial condition. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS All reports that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our internet website at www.unionbank.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. As used in this Form 10-K, the term "UnionBanCal" and terms such as "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to UnionBanCal Corporation, Union Bank, N.A., one or more of their consolidated subsidiaries, or to all of them together. General We are a California-based, financial holding and commercial bank holding company whose major subsidiary, Union Bank, N.A., is a commercial bank. (On December 18, 2008, Union Bank, N.A. changed its name from Union Bank of California, N.A.) Union Bank provides a wide range of financial services to consumers, small businesses, middle-market companies and major corporations, primarily in California, Oregon, Washington and Texas, as well as nationally and internationally. As of December 31, 2010, Union Bank operated 400 full-service branches in California, Oregon, Washington and Texas, as well as two international offices. On April 30, 2010, Union Bank acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Frontier Bank (Frontier) from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Additionally on April 16, 2010, Union Bank acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Tamalpais Bank (Tamalpais) from the FDIC in an FDIC-assisted transaction. For both acquisitions, we entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC, whereby the FDIC will cover a substantial portion of any future losses on acquired loans (FDIC covered loans) and other real estate owned (OREO) from these acquisitions. On November 4, 2008, we became a privately held company. All of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are now owned by BTMU. Prior to the transaction, BTMU owned approximately 64 percent of our outstanding shares of common stock. Banking Lines of Business Our operations are divided into two reportable segments. These segments and their financial information are described more fully in "Business Segments" of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and in Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Retail Banking. Retail Banking offers our customers a wide spectrum of financial products under one convenient umbrella. Our broad line of checking and savings, investment, loan and fee-based banking products is designed to meet individual and business needs. These products are offered through 346 full-service branches in California and 53 full-service branches in Oregon and Washington. In addition, Retail Banking offers e-banking through our website and check cashing services at our Cash & Save® locations. Corporate Banking. Corporate Banking offers a wide array of financial products to both middle market and corporate businesses headquartered throughout the U.S. Corporate Banking focuses its activities on specific specialized industries, such as power and utilities, petroleum, real estate, healthcare, equipment leasing and commercial finance, as well as general corporate and middle market lending in regional markets throughout the U.S. Corporate Banking relationship managers provide credit services, including commercial loans, accounts receivable and inventory financing, project financing, trade financing and real estate financing. In addition to credit services, Corporate Banking offers its customers a broad range of global treasury 5 Table of Contents management solutions, as well as foreign exchange and various interest rate risk and energy risk management products which are delivered through deposit managers and product specialists with significant industry expertise and experience in businesses of all sizes including numerous vertical industry niches such as U.S. correspondent banks and government entities. Corporate Banking also provides its high net worth clients credit and deposit products, trust and estate services, wealth planning and various investment related products and services through Union Bank subsidiaries, UnionBanc Investment Services, LLC (UBIS), and HighMark Capital Management, Inc. (HighMark). UBIS and HighMark also provide investment products and services to middle market and corporate clients. Corporate Banking, through its Institutional Services Division, also provides custody, corporate trust, and retirement plan services. Employees At January 31, 2011, we had 10,715 full-time equivalent employees. Competition Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon, Washington and Texas, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banks and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Some of our competitors are insurance companies or community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, which are well in excess of ours. Competition in our industry may further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, particularly in our principal markets resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources if they develop credit needs larger than we may be able to accommodate. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions and other financial companies, which do not always have a physical presence in our market footprint and have grown rapidly in recent years. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can now combine as a "financial holding company." Financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Many of our competitors have elected to become financial holding companies, including several large finance companies, securities firms and insurance companies. A number of foreign banks have either acquired financial holding companies or obtained financial holding company status in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. In 2008, UnionBanCal Corporation, BTMU and MUFG obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to become financial holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHCA). We sought this new status from the Federal Reserve Board to provide us maximum flexibility to pursue new business opportunities as the banking and financial services industry undergoes rapid and profound changes. Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. Current federal law has made it easier for out-of-state banks to enter and compete in the states in which we operate. Competition in our principal markets may further intensify as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act which, 6 Table of Contents among other things, permits out of state de novo branching by national banks, state banks and foreign banks from other states. The primary factors in competing for business include pricing, convenience of office locations and other delivery methods, range of products offered, customer relationships and level of service delivered. We believe that continued emphasis on enhanced services and distribution systems, an expanded customer base, increased productivity and strong credit quality, together with a substantial capital base, will better position us to meet the challenges provided by this competition. Monetary Policy and Economic Conditions Our earnings and businesses are affected not only by general economic conditions (both domestic and international), but also by the monetary policies of various governmental regulatory authorities of the U.S. and foreign governments and international agencies. In particular, our earnings and growth may be affected by actions of the Federal Reserve Board in connection with its implementation of national monetary policy through its open market operations in U.S. Government securities, control of the discount rate for borrowings by financial institutions and the federal funds rate and establishment of reserve requirements against both member and non-member financial institutions' deposits. These actions have a significant effect on the overall growth and distribution of loans and leases, investments and deposits, as well as on the rates earned on securities, loans and leases or paid on deposits. It is difficult to predict future changes in monetary policies and their effect on our business, particularly in light of the current challenging economic conditions. Supervision and Regulation Overview. Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. This regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund, and other clients of the institution, and not for the benefit of the investors in the stock or other securities of the bank holding company. Financial service companies are also frequent targets of civil litigation. Set forth below is a summary description of material laws and regulations that relate to our operation and those of our subsidiaries, including Union Bank. This summary description of applicable laws and regulations does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such laws and regulations. Financial statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. Bank Holding Company Act (the BHCA) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley (GLB) Act. We, MUFG and BTMU are subject to regulation under the BHCA, which also subjects us to Federal Reserve Board reporting and examination requirements. Generally, the BHCA restricts our ability to invest in non-banking entities, and we may not acquire more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any domestic bank without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Our activities are limited, with some exceptions, to banking, the business of managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board deems to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. The GLB Act allows "financial holding companies" to offer banking, insurance, securities and other financial products. Among other things, the GLB Act amended the BHCA in order to provide a framework for engaging in new financial activities by bank holding companies. In 2008, UnionBanCal Corporation, BTMU and MUFG obtained approval from the Federal Reserve Board to become financial holding companies under the BHCA. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we must continue to satisfy certain ongoing criteria, such as capital, managerial and Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requirements. Under the GLB Act, "financial subsidiaries" of banks may engage in some types of activities beyond those permitted to banks themselves, provided certain conditions are met. At this time, Union Bank has no plans to form any "financial subsidiaries." 7 Table of Contents Under the Dodd-Frank Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. Under these requirements, a holding company may be required to contribute additional capital to an undercapitalized subsidiary bank. However, this additional capital may be required at times when a bank holding company may not have the resources to provide such support. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This new legislation has affected U.S. financial institutions, including UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank, in many ways, some of which have increased, or may increase in the future, the cost of doing business and have presented other challenges to the financial services industry. Many of the new law's provisions are in the process of being implemented by rules and regulations of the federal banking agencies, the scope and impact of which cannot yet be fully determined. The new law contains many provisions which may have particular relevance to the business of UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank. While the full effect of these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act on Union Bank cannot be predicted at this time, they may result in adjustments to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums, increased capital and liquidity requirements, increased supervision, increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs and other operational costs and expenses, reduced fee-based revenues and restrictions on some aspects of our operations, and increased interest expense on our demand deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also created authority on the part of the FDIC for the liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by borrowings from the U.S. Treasury and risk-based assessments on covered financial companies, which includes the possibility, in circumstances where there is a shortfall after assessments on creditors of the failed company, of assessments on bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as our Company. The Dodd-Frank Act also changed the existing standard for the preemption of state consumer financial laws to allow a court or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to preempt a state consumer financial law only if it discriminates against national banks, prevents or significantly interferes with the exercise by the national bank of its powers or the state law is preempted by another federal law. This change in the preemption standard was designed to allow greater regulation of national banks under state law. Comptroller of the Currency. Union Bank, as a national banking association, is subject to broad federal regulation and oversight extending to all its operations by the OCC, its primary regulator, and also by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). As part of this authority, Union Bank is required to file periodic reports with the OCC and is subject to ongoing supervision and examination by the OCC. The OCC has extensive enforcement authority over all national banks. If, as a result of an examination of a bank, the OCC determines that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the bank's operations are unsatisfactory or that the bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulations, various remedies are available to the OCC. These remedies include the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced to direct an increase in capital, to restrict the growth of the bank, to assess civil monetary penalties, to remove officers and directors, and ultimately to terminate the bank's deposit insurance. The OCC, as well as other federal agencies, including the FDIC, have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, regulations and guidelines establishing safety and soundness standards, including but not limited to such matters as loan underwriting and documentation, internal controls and audit systems, information systems, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth and quality, management standards and earnings and compensation and other employee benefits. However, the OCC has broad authority to address activity it deems to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice and is not limited by the specific standards set forth in the regulations. Financial Stability Oversight Council. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Committee (FSOC) to provide oversight of all risks created within the U.S. economy from the activities of financial services companies, end the expectation that some institutions are "too big to fail," and provide a basis for enhanced prudential regulation. The FSOC must determine which bank holding companies 8 Table of Contents and nonbank financial companies pose risks to U.S. financial stability, and subject those companies to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. Bank holding companies over $50 billion in consolidated assets are considered to be "large interconnected bank holding companies" and automatically designated as "systemically significant." Union Bank expects to be designated as "systemically significant" and therefore, expects to face heightened prudential standards including capital, leverage, and liquidity, as well as credit exposure reporting, concentration limits, stress testing and resolution plans. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB will have direct supervision and examination authority over banks with more than $10 billion in assets, including us. Among the CFPB's responsibilities will be implementing and enforcing federal consumer financial laws, reviewing the business practices of financial services providers for legal compliance, monitoring the marketplace for transparency on behalf of consumers and receiving complaints and questions from consumers about consumer financial products and services. Other Regulatory Oversight. Our subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by various other federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition, Union Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions under the Federal Reserve Act and related regulations, including restrictions on affiliate transactions. As a holding company, the principal source of our cash has been dividends and interest received from Union Bank. Dividends payable by Union Bank to us are subject to restrictions under a formula imposed by the OCC unless express approval is given to exceed these limitations. For more information regarding restrictions on loans and dividends by Union Bank to its affiliates and on transactions with affiliates, see Notes 19 and 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (FDIA), requires federal bank regulatory authorities to take "prompt corrective action" in dealing with inadequately capitalized banks. The FDIA establishes five tiers of capital measurement ranging from "well-capitalized" to "critically undercapitalized." It is our policy to maintain capital ratios above the minimum regulatory requirements for "well-capitalized" institutions for both Union Bank and us. Management believes that, at December 31, 2010, Union Bank and UnionBanCal met the requirements for "well-capitalized" institutions. Deposits of Union Bank are insured up to statutory limits by the FDIC and, accordingly, are subject to deposit insurance assessments. Amendments to the FDIA in 2005-2006 created a new assessment system designed to more closely tie what banks pay for deposit insurance to the risks they pose and adopted a new base schedule of rates that the FDIC can adjust up or down, depending on the revenue needs of the insurance fund. As a result of this legislation, Union Bank has been subject to annual assessments on deposits since 2007. The initial assessment rate was approximately 5 basis points. Prior to this change, Union Bank was not paying any insurance assessments on deposits under the FDIC's risk-related assessment system. An FDIC credit for prior contributions offset the assessment in 2007 and part of 2008. As part of the Deposit Insurance Fund Restoration Plan adopted by the FDIC in October 2008, beginning on April 1, 2009, the FDIC initial base assessment rates were set between 12 and 45 basis points. In addition, on June 30, 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on banks related to the financial crisis. Union Bank's special assessment totaled $34 million and was paid on September 30, 2009. In November 2009, in light of the challenge to the federal deposit insurance fund from the severe U.S. recession, the FDIC issued a rule mandating that insured depository institutions prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments to the FDIC for the fourth quarter of 2009, and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Union Bank's prepayment totaled $353 million and was paid on December 30, 2009. Under this rule, each depository institution was required to record the entire amount of its prepayment as an asset, or a prepaid expense, and is allowed to count the payments as a depreciating asset. The prepaid assessments bear a zero-percent risk weight for risk-based capital purposes. The FDIC will not refund or collect additional prepaid assessments because of a decrease or growth in deposits over the prepayment period. However, if the prepaid assessment is not exhausted by June 30, 2013, the remaining amount of the prepayment will be returned to the depository institution. The prepaid assessments are in lieu of additional special assessments at this time; 9 Table of Contents however, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose additional special assessments or increase annual assessments in the future. On February 17, 2011, the FDIC adopted rules to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for larger institutions, including Union Bank. Under a "scorecard" system, banks have a performance score and a loss-severity score that are combined into a total score which is translated into an initial assessment rate. The FDIC has the ability to adjust components of the scorecard to produce accurate relative risk rankings. The initial base assessment rate ranges from 10 to 50 basis points. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to revise the deposit insurance assessment system to base assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the institution, rather than upon deposits payable in the U.S. as was previously the case. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminates the ceiling on the size of the FDIC's insurance fund and increases the floor of the size of the fund, which will require a general increase in assessment levels for larger institutions, including Union Bank. On October 19, 2010, the FDIC proposed a comprehensive, long-range "restoration" plan for the deposit insurance fund to ensure that the ratio of the fund's reserves to insured deposits reaches 1.35 percent by 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Based upon updated projections for the fund, the new restoration plan would forgo the uniform 3 basis point assessment rate increase previously scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2011, and would keep the current rate schedule in effect. The FDIC's proposal also envisions eventually building the fund's reserve ratio to 2.0 percent. Base assessment rates would adjust downward over time as the fund reached specified reserve levels. The ultimate effect of these legislative and regulatory developments cannot be predicted with any certainty. If any insured depository institution becomes insolvent and the FDIC is appointed its conservator or receiver, the FDIC may, in most cases, disaffirm or repudiate any contract to which such institution is a party, if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract would be burdensome, and that disaffirmance or repudiation of the contract would promote the orderly administration of the institution's affairs. In addition, the FDIC as conservator or receiver may enforce most contracts entered into by the institution notwithstanding any provision providing for termination, default, acceleration or exercise of rights upon or solely by reason of insolvency of the institution, appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution, or exercise of rights or powers by a conservator or receiver for the institution. The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of its depositors (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, in order of priority of payment. There are additional requirements and restrictions in the laws of the U.S. and the states of California, Oregon, Texas, and Washington, as well as other states in which Union Bank and its subsidiaries may conduct operations. These include restrictions on the levels of lending and the nature and amount of investments, as well as activities as an underwriter of securities, the opening and closing of branches and the acquisition of other financial institutions. The consumer lending and finance activities of Union Bank are also subject to extensive regulation under various federal and state laws. These statutes impose requirements on the making, enforcement and collection of consumer loans and on the types of disclosures that must be made in connection with such loans. As described above, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act appear to have been intended to generally increase state consumer protection regulation of national banks. Union Bank is also subject to the CRA. The CRA generally requires the federal banking agencies to evaluate the record of a financial institution in meeting the needs of local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. In addition to substantial penalties and corrective measures that may be required for a violation of certain fair lending laws, the federal banking agencies may take compliance with such laws and the CRA into account when regulating and supervising other activities, and in evaluating whether to approve applications for permission to engage in new activities or for acquisitions of other banks or companies or de novo branching. An unsatisfactory CRA rating may be the basis for denying the application. 10 Table of Contents Based on the most current examination report dated June 1, 2009, Union Bank's compliance with CRA was rated "outstanding." We are also subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, and the implementing regulations thereunder. The statute requires financial institutions and other firms engaged in the extension of credit to make credit equally available to all creditworthy customers without regard to sex or marital status. Moreover, the statute makes it unlawful for any creditor to discriminate against any applicant with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction: (1) on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or marital status, or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to contract); (2) because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or (3) because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. In addition, a creditor may not make any oral or written statement, in advertising or otherwise, to customers or prospective customers that would discourage, on a prohibited basis, application for credit. Union Bank has offices in Canada and the Cayman Islands. Any international activities of Union Bank are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction where business is being conducted, which may change from time to time and affect Union Bank's business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Furthermore, due to BTMU's controlling ownership of us, regulatory requirements adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan may have an effect on the activities and investments of Union Bank and us in the future. The activities of Union Bank subsidiaries, HighMark and UBIS, are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as those of state securities regulators. UBIS is also subject to the rules and regulations of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Under Federal Reserve Board rules, Union Bank is affiliated with the HighMark Funds. The HighMark Funds is a registered investment company, subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Broker/Dealer Regulation. Union Bank is not registered as a broker or dealer. The GLB Act and applicable regulations require us to conduct non-exempted securities brokerage or dealer activities through our registered broker-dealer, UBIS. These laws and regulations also limit compensation we may pay our bank employees for referrals of brokerage business and limit Union Bank's ability to advertise securities brokerage services. Bank Secrecy Act. The banking industry is now subject to significantly increased regulatory controls and processes regarding the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws. Failure to comply with these additional requirements may adversely affect the ability to obtain regulatory approvals for future initiatives requiring regulatory approval, including acquisitions. Under the USA PATRIOT Act, federal banking regulators must consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering program prior to approving an application for a merger, acquisition or other activities requiring regulatory approval. Failure to comply with these requirements can also subject an insured depository institution to monetary fines, penalties and other sanctions. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In November 2008, we became a privately-held company. All of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are now owned by BTMU. We file periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with the reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of publicly-held companies, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applies to us. Among other provisions, Section 302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to certify that our quarterly and annual reports do not contain any untrue statement or omission of a material fact and to make additional certifications as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting and other matters. In response to these requirements, we have established a Disclosure Committee to monitor compliance with these rules. Membership of the Disclosure Committee is comprised of senior management from 11 Table of Contents throughout our organization whom we believe collectively provide an extensive understanding of our operations. As part of our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we evaluate our internal control process quarterly and we test and assess our internal controls over financial reporting annually. Basel Committee Capital Standards. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) proposed new international capital standards for banking organizations (Basel II) in June 2004, and the new framework is currently being evaluated and implemented by bank supervisory authorities worldwide. Basel II updates the original international bank capital accord (Basel I), which has been in effect since 1988. Basel II is intended to improve the consistency of capital regulations internationally, make regulatory capital more risk sensitive, and promote enhanced risk-management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. We do not meet the criteria in the new U.S. rules which would make adoption of the new Basel II rules mandatory. However, MUFG, which owns all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock through its wholly-owned subsidiary BTMU, is subject to the requirements of Basel II under the rules of the Japan Financial Services Agency (JFSA). In addition, the rules of the JFSA require subsidiaries of Japanese banks and bank holding companies that represent more than 2 percent of the parent's consolidated risk-weighted assets to also comply with Basel II. Because we meet this criterion, the JFSA requirement is applicable to us. We currently provide risk-weighted assets calculations to BTMU for incorporation into their Basel II reports, primarily applying the JFSA Standardized Approach to Basel II. In order to facilitate the JFSA requirements, we expect to adopt the advanced approach to the Basel II rules as in effect in the U.S., subject to approval by our U.S. bank regulators. In December 2010, the U.S. Federal banking agencies proposed new rules to establish permanent floors for minimum risk-based capital requirements for banking organizations that adopt Basel II under the advanced approach. The proposed floors would be equal to the current Basel I minimum ratios for tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital and would be calculated according to the general risk-based capital requirements of the Basel I standard. The implementation of Basel II is not expected to impact our ability to comply with the minimum capital requirements set forth by the U.S. federal banking agencies. BTMU is reimbursing us for expenditures that we are incurring for Basel II projects that we would not have undertaken for our own risk management purposes. In addition to the Basel II framework, the Basel Committee is developing further proposed revisions to the capital standards which include narrowing the definition of capital, increasing capital requirements for specific exposures, introducing short-term liquidity coverage and term funding standards, and establishing an international leverage ratio. In September 2010, the Basel Committee announced that new liquidity risk metrics would become minimum standards in January 2015 (the Liquidity Coverage Ratio) and January 2018 (the Net Stable Funding Ratio) after observation periods that would commence in January 2011 and January 2012, respectively. The observation periods are intended to enable banking supervisors to obtain more robust reporting over these periods. The intent is to assess the impact of the new standards on individual banks, the banking sector and the broader markets. To the extent that the standards produce any unintended consequences, revisions to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio would be made by mid-2013 and by mid-2016 for the Net Stable Funding Ratio. The announcement was preceded by a consultative document issued for comment in December 2009 and an annex in July 2010 that revised some of the definitions in the original consultative document. Many aspects of the standards are uncertain and are subject to interpretation. Also in September 2010, the Basel Committee announced new, higher capital standards that increase minimum capital ratios plus add a capital conservation buffer. The revised standards call for a fully phased-in minimum common equity ratio of 4.5 percent plus a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent, and also introduce new deductions from allowable equity capital. The Basel Committee also announced that a countercyclical buffer of zero percent to 2.5 percent of common equity or other fully loss-absorbing capital will be implemented according to national circumstances as an extension of the conservation buffer. These rules were finalized with the issuance of the final Basel III rules on December 16, 2010. Finally, on January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued minimum requirements to ensure that all classes of capital instruments fully absorb losses at the point of non-viability before taxpayers are exposed to loss. In order for an instrument 12 Table of Contents issued by a bank to be included in additional (i.e., non-common) Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, it must meet or exceed minimum requirements. As with the liquidity risk metrics, many aspects of the standards are uncertain and are subject to interpretation, with further clarification required by U.S. regulators. The new standards are to be fully phased-in by January 2019, with observation periods beginning in January 2011. It is expected that clarifying guidance for U.S. banks will be provided by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies through customary rulemaking procedures. Customer Information Security. The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Union Bank has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by its Board of Directors. Privacy. The GLB Act requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliate third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banks' policies and procedures. Union Bank implemented a privacy policy, effective since the GLB Act became law, which provides that all of its existing and new customers will be notified of Union Bank's privacy policies. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, which have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among different affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-marketing products and services between those affiliated companies. This may result in certain cross-marketing efforts being less effective than they have been in the past. State laws and regulations designed to protect the privacy and security of customer information also apply to us and our other subsidiaries. Overdraft and Interchange Fees. In November 2009, the Federal Reserve Board adopted amendments under its Regulation E that impose new restrictions on banks' abilities to charge overdraft services and fees. The final rule prohibits financial institutions from charging fees for paying overdrafts on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Regulation E has resulted in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the banking industry and Union Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act, through a provision known as the Durbin Amendment, requires the Federal Reserve Board to establish standards for interchange fees that are "reasonable and proportional" to the cost of processing the debit card transaction and imposes other requirements on card networks. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board proposed an interchange fee cap of twelve cents per transaction. If such a fee cap is implemented, we expect it will result in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the banking industry and Union Bank. Economic and Financial Crisis and the U.S. Government's Response Congress, the U.S. Treasury and the federal banking regulators have taken broad action since September 2008 to address volatility in the U.S. financial system and the U.S. recession. The most sweeping of these actions, the Dodd-Frank Act, is discussed above. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the EESA) was enacted. Pursuant to the EESA, the maximum deposit insurance amount was temporarily increased from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor, such increase subsequently made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. Pursuant to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the FDIC has guaranteed newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating financial institutions and their qualifying holding companies. Union Bank elected to participate and, during the first quarter of 2009, issued $1 billion principal amount of FDIC-guaranteed senior notes under this program. 13 Table of Contents In October 2008, the U.S. Treasury enacted a voluntary Capital Purchase Program under its Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) pursuant to which the Treasury purchased senior preferred stock of qualifying U.S. financial institutions. Many banks and bank holding companies participated in this program. UnionBanCal, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, was not eligible to participate in the Capital Purchase Program. Possible Future Legislation and Regulatory Initiatives The recent economic and political environment has led to a number of proposed legislative, governmental and regulatory initiatives, described above, that may significantly impact our industry. These and other initiatives could significantly change the competitive and operating environment in which we and our subsidiaries operate. We cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted or the ultimate impact of any such initiatives on our operations, competitive situation, financial condition or results of operations. Financial Information See our Consolidated Financial Statements starting on page 86 of this Form 10-K for financial information about UnionBanCal Corporation and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the following information: Industry Factors U.S. and global economies have experienced a serious recession, unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, and significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S. consumer and business economy, all of which continue to present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation; the U.S. Government has responded to these circumstances with a variety of measures; there can be no assurance that these measures will successfully address these circumstances. Over the past three years, adverse financial and economic developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and have presented challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation. These developments include a general recession both globally and in the U.S. and have contributed to substantial volatility in the financial markets. In response, various significant economic and monetary stimulus measures have been enacted and considered by the U.S. Congress. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain of these measures. It cannot be predicted whether U.S. Governmental actions will result in lasting improvement in financial and economic conditions affecting the U.S. banking industry and the U.S. economy. It also cannot be predicted whether and to what extent the efforts of the U.S. Government to combat the mixed economic conditions will continue. If, notwithstanding the government's fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to deteriorate, this would continue to present significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for our Company. In addition, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, we have not been eligible to participate in some federal programs such as the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program and may not qualify for participation in future federal programs. Recently, certain sovereign borrowers have encountered difficulties in financing renewals of their indebtedness. If this trend continues or worsens, it could have adverse impacts on costs in the global debt markets which could increase funding costs for banks generally. Further, European regulators announced in 2010 findings from capital stress tests on many European banks. The confidence in the transparency and 14 Table of Contents robustness in these stress tests remains unclear. These combined factors, if continuing to worsen, could further increase the uncertainty in global markets. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the U.S. banking industry Dramatic declines in the housing market in the U.S. in general, and in California in particular, during 2008 and continuing in 2009 and 2010, with falling or sluggish home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, residential and commercial real estate loans and small business and other commercial loans, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. These adverse economic conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in 2009 and this effect continued, although to a lessened degree, in 2010. Although the economic conditions in our markets and in the U.S. generally may be showing signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve. These conditions may again decline in the near future. In addition, turbulent political and economic conditions in foreign countries have negatively impacted the U.S. financial markets and economy in general and may do so in the future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties may be impaired if the applications and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers and counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors. •We may not be able to accurately estimate credit exposure losses because the process we use to estimate these losses requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments with respect to predictions which may not be amenable to precise estimates, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. •Significant fluctuations in the prices of equity and fixed income securities could adversely impact the revenues of our asset management and trust business. Fees charged are based upon asset values and declines in values proportionately reduce fees charged. •Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions and the enhanced ability of banks to expand across state lines under the Dodd-Frank Act (see "Substantial competition could adversely affect us"). •We may incur goodwill impairment losses in future periods. See "Critical Accounting Estimates—Annual Goodwill Impairment Analysis" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. •We have been subject to increased FDIC deposit premiums relative to pre-2008 levels and may in future years be subject to further premium increases which could increase our costs. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding FDIC actions relating to deposit insurance assessments. 15 Table of Contents The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will continue and likely intensify in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional supervision, fees, taxes or restrictions on our operations. Compliance with laws and regulations, especially new laws and regulations, increases our expenses and diverts management attention from our business operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This new legislation has affected U.S. financial institutions, including UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank, in many ways, some of which have increased, or may increase in the future, the cost of doing business and present other challenges to the financial services industry. Due to our size, we will likely be designated as "systemically significant" to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, may be subject to additional regulations. Many of the new law's provisions are in the process of being implemented by rules and regulations of the federal banking agencies, the scope and impact of which cannot yet be fully determined. The new law contains many provisions which may have particular relevance to the business of UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank. While the full effect of these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act on Union Bank cannot be predicted at this time, they may result in adjustments to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums, increased capital and liquidity requirements, increased supervision, increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs and other operational costs and expenses, reduced fee-based revenues and restrictions on some aspects of our operations, and increased interest expense on our demand deposits, some or all of which may be material. On February 11, 2011, the U.S. Treasury released a White Paper addressing possible solutions to the current problems with Government Sponsored Entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (GSEs). The Treasury White Paper presents three possible long-term options to wind down the GSEs, reform the mortgage market and better target government support of affordable housing. While the specific nature of the reform and its impact on the financial services industry in general, and on Union Bank in particular, is unclear at this time, such reform, if enacted, is likely to have a substantial impact on the mortgage market and could potentially reduce our income from mortgage originations by increasing mortgage costs or lowering originations. The GSE reform could also reduce real estate prices, which could reduce the value of collateral securing outstanding mortgage loans. This reduction of collateral value could negatively impact the value or perceived collectibility of these mortgage loans and may increase our allowance for loan losses. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to our ownership by BTMU, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. In addition to changes in required capital resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, the Basel Committee published in December 2010 guidelines for the Basel III global regulatory framework for capital and liquidity, including calibration for increased capital requirements approved by the G20 leadership in November 2010. Current U.S. regulatory leverage ratio requirements are more stringent than those proposed by Basel III, which will be further assessed prior to finalization. New liquidity standards are expected to be adopted by U.S. bank regulatory agencies with some modifications. These new liquidity standards could require that we raise and maintain additional liquidity. While the ultimate implementation of these proposals in the U.S. is subject to the discretion of the U.S. bank regulators, these 16 Table of Contents proposals, if adopted, could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation-Basel Committee Capital Standards" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the Basel Committee capital standards. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under a long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. Government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain existing and proposed laws and regulations that may affect our business. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact from current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowances because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers' ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowance. Continued volatility in fuel and energy costs could also adversely impact some borrowers' ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowance because of unexpected events. Any increase in the credit allowance would result in a charge to earnings. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers and decrease our revenue from other customers Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences. In response to the financial crisis, in 2009, legislation was proposed to allow mortgage loan "cram-downs," which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity 17 Table of Contents loans including to reduce the principal amounts to reflect lower underlying property values. Although this legislation has not moved forward at this time, legislation of this type could result in our writing down the value of our residential mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their lower loan values. There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults. Recent changes in federal rules have imposed new restrictions on banks' abilities to charge overdraft services and fees and can be expected to result in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the industry and Union Bank. See "Supervision and Regulation—Overdraft and Interchange Fees" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs and assumptions to estimate fair value. Because generally accepted accounting principles require fair value measurements to reflect appropriate adjustments for risks related to liquidity and the use of unobservable assumptions, we may recognize unrealized losses even if we believe that the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. During periods of adverse conditions in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments with respect to securities in our portfolio. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact, and has in past years impacted, our net interest spread, that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. Changes in interest rates can also affect the level of loan refinancing activity, which impacts the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on loans we hold. Recently, the banking industry has operated in an extremely low interest rate environment relative to historical averages. If a rising rate environment were to ensue, it could present new challenges for the industry and Union Bank. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, which may increase our funding costs and adversely affect our liquidity position Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other 18 Table of Contents investments either with us or with external providers. In addition, our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not fully insured by the FDIC. Depositors may withdraw certain deposits from Union Bank and place them in other institutions or invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates or reduce fees to retain certain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. In addition, we have benefited from a "flight to quality" by consumers and businesses seeking the relative safety of bank deposits over the past few years. As interest rates rise from historically low levels during the current period, our newly acquired deposits may not be as stable or as interest rate insensitive as similar deposits may have been in the past, and as a recovery in the economy ensues, some existing or prospective deposit customers of banks generally, including Union Bank, may be inclined to pursue other investment alternatives. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. During 2010, our interest bearing deposits decreased $10.3 billion, or 19 percent, as a result of a planned deposit decline resulting from targeted rate reductions. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Overview" in this report on Form 10-K. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits, including business demand deposits, to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on business demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon, Washington, and Texas as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banks and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Some of our competitors are insurance companies or community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, which are well in excess of ours. Competition in our industry may further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, particularly in our principal markets resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources if they develop credit needs larger than we may be able to accommodate. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions and other financial companies, which do not always have a physical presence in our market footprint and have grown rapidly in recent years. Competition in our principal markets may further intensify as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, permits out of state de novo branching by national banks, state banks and foreign banks from other states. 19 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements or new interpretations of existing standards emerge as standard industry practice. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. The continuing war on terrorism, overseas military conflicts and unrest in other countries could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities, as well as political unrest in various regions, may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. Company Factors Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, and could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a continued or further downturn in the residential real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolios in various ways, including by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors and are impacting the performance of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial portfolios. The commercial real estate industry in the U.S., and in California in particular, has been increasingly adversely impacted by the recessionary environment and lack of liquidity in the financial markets. The home building and mortgage industry in California has been especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets. Poor economic conditions and financial access for commercial real estate developers and homebuilders could continue to adversely affect property values, resulting in higher nonperforming assets and charge offs in this sector. Our commercial and industrial portfolio, and the communications and media industry, the retail industry, the energy industry and the technology industry in particular, are also being impacted by recessionary market conditions. Continued volatility in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries. Conditions and credit markets remain uncertain and could produce elevated levels of charge-offs. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. 20 Table of Contents Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business The government of the State of California currently faces economic and fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. Economic conditions in California are subject to various challenges at this time, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector and the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties. California continues to have a high unemployment rate, with reported figures of 12.4 percent in December 2010. Also, California markets have experienced among the worst property value declines in the U.S. For the past several years, the State government of California has experienced budget shortfalls or deficits which have led to protracted negotiations between the Governor and the State Legislature over how to address the budget gap. This challenging situation continues at the present time. In addition, municipalities and other governmental units within California have been experiencing budgetary difficulties. Concerns also have arisen regarding the outlook for the State of California's governmental obligations, as well as those of California municipalities and other governmental units. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and interest and fee income is generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. If the budgetary and fiscal difficulties of the California State government and California municipalities and other governmental units continue or economic conditions in California decline further, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Since November 2008, BTMU, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MUFG, has owned all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BTMU can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to BTMU or MUFG. A majority of our directors are independent of BTMU and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including BTMU. However, because of BTMU's control over the election of our directors, it could at any time change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's credit ratings and financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations Adverse changes to our credit ratings, reputation or creditworthiness could have a negative effect on our operations. We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, if BTMU and MUFG's credit ratings or financial condition or prospects were to decline, this could adversely affect our credit rating or harm our reputation or perceived creditworthiness. In February 2011, Moody's Japan K.K. changed the outlook for the Government of Japan's bond ratings to negative from stable and consequently changed the outlook to negative from stable for the long-term debt credit ratings of Japan's three largest banks, including BTMU, noting that a downgrade in the government rating would result in a downgrade in the banks' ratings, absent a material improvement in their standalone credit quality. At this time, we cannot predict the actions, if any, which other rating agencies may take on this subject, nor the ultimate effect of these developments on our credit rating. On March 11, 2011, a large earthquake and tsunami occurred in Japan causing widespread destruction. The ultimate impact of this natural disaster on the economy of Japan and its government debt credit ratings and the credit ratings of Japan's three largest banks, including BTMU, cannot be predicted at this time. 21 Table of Contents BTMU and MUFG are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against BTMU or MUFG. Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of BTMU and MUFG regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may prevent, delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of BTMU's risk management processes, BTMU manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of BTMU. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as BTMU. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including BTMU's aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors' and officers' ownership interests in MUFG's common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and BTMU could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and BTMU compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us We have in the past, and may in the future, seek to expand our business by acquiring other businesses which we believe will enhance our business. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; continued growth; or the overall performance of the acquired company or combined entity. We also may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals and unexpected contingent liabilities can arise from the businesses we acquire. Our purchase and assumption and loss share agreements with the FDIC relating to our Frontier Bank and Tamalpais Bank transactions have specific compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Any failure to comply with the requirements of the loss share agreements, or to properly service the loans and other real estate owned (OREO) covered by any loss share arrangement, may cause individual loans or loan pools to lose their eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC, potentially resulting in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly. If we are not able to integrate successfully past or future acquisitions, there is a risk that results of operations could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell or restructure a business. Any divestitures or restructurings may result in significant expenses and write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and may involve additional risks, including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divestiture or restructuring we might make. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and we do not control their actions. Among other services provided by these vendors, third-party vendors play a key role in the implementation of our integrated banking platform. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, implement our integrated banking platform and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors is not always possible or within our control and could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, retain and successfully integrate skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. In the past few years, we have experienced significant turnover among members of management, primarily due to retirement. We must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we bring into the organization in order to achieve our operating objectives as new management becomes familiar with our business. In February 2011, the FDIC issued proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act which are intended to prevent compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking, are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. In certain circumstances, a portion of incentive-based compensation awarded to executive officers of large financial institutions, including Union Bank, would be deferred to future periods. The FDIC has also proposed rules which would increase deposit premiums for institutions with compensation practices deemed to increase risk to the institution. Over time, these proposed rules, upon their adoption, could have the effect of making it more difficult for banks to attract and retain skilled personnel. 23 Table of Contents The challenging operating environment and current operational initiatives may strain our available resources There are an increasing number of matters in addition to our core operations which require our attention and resources. These matters include implementation of our integrated banking platform, adoption of the Basel II capital guidelines, various strategic initiatives, integration of the operations of our recent FDIC-assisted acquisitions, a disruptive economic environment, a challenging regulatory environment, including the possible effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted thereunder, and integration of new employees, including key members of management. Our ability to execute our core operations and to implement other important initiatives may be adversely affected if our resources are insufficient or if we are unable to allocate available resources effectively. Also, our ability to constrain or reduce operating expense levels may be limited by the costs of increasing regulatory requirements and expectations. Significant legal or regulatory proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that have been or might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results Under a tax election we have made, we are required to file our California franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes MUFG's U.S. operations, including its branch activities and its U.S. affiliates. Increases or decreases in the taxable profits of MUFG's U.S. operations could increase or decrease our effective tax rate. We review MUFG's financial information on a quarterly basis to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to MUFG's March 31 fiscal year-end. Our California effective tax rate can change during the calendar year, or between calendar years, as additional information becomes available. If we understate our tax obligations, we could be subject to penalties. Our effective tax rates also could be affected by valuation changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the tax authorities. Our credit ratings are important in order to maintain liquidity. Major credit rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of UnionBanCal Corporation and the securities and deposits of Union Bank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities and also of our short-term obligations are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current long-term and short-term ratings. In addition, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch, Inc. have announced that the ratings of a number of large U.S. banks, not including Union Bank, may be negatively affected because the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act makes it less likely that the government would step in to rescue a troubled bank. It is unclear whether other rating agencies will respond in a similar way or whether perceived reduction in systemic support could lead or contribute to negative downward pressure on our credit ratings. 24 Table of Contents If our long-term or short-term credit ratings suffer downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of commercial depositors, investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our ability to generate income. Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain a specified credit rating. If our credit rating were to fall below the specified rating, the counterparties to these derivative instruments could terminate the contract and demand immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization for those derivative instruments in net liability positions. Adverse changes in the credit ratings, operations or prospects of our parent companies, BTMU and MUFG, could also adversely impact our credit ratings. We are subject to operational risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Segments." Operational risk includes execution risk related to operational initiatives, including implementation of our integrated banking platform, reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption "The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us." We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Failures in our internal control or operational systems could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as computer hacking or viruses, electrical, internet or telecommunications outages or unexpected difficulties with the implementation of our integrated banking platform, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, negative public opinion could also result from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank, or BTMU or MUFG. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain lending and deposit customers and employees and can expose us to litigation 25 Table of Contents and regulatory action and increased liquidity risk. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important for some commercial deposit customers and also to our access to the capital markets and unsecured wholesale or other borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to our company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework's underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud Since November 2008, all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock have been owned by MUFG through its wholly-owned subsidiary BTMU. As such, we would have been no longer required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); however, we have elected to voluntarily register our common stock under the Exchange Act and for so long as we maintain that registration in effect we will be required to continue to file such periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with a reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that may result in losses or adversely affect our earnings We may find it necessary to take actions or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction even though we are not required to do so by law. The risk that we will need to take such actions and incur the resulting losses or reductions in earnings is greater in periods when financial markets and the broader economy are performing poorly or are particularly volatile. As a result, such actions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, perhaps materially. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions As a result of trading, clearing or other relationships, we have exposure to many different counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers, dealers and investment banks. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or 26 Table of Contents derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include allowance for credit losses, acquired loans, FDIC indemnification asset, valuation of financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment, hedge accounting, pension obligations, annual goodwill impairment analysis, and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase or decrease the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly different than the reserve provided, recognize significant impairment on goodwill, or significantly increase or decrease our accrued tax liability. Any of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 