ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors in addition to those listed here. We have set forth additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Risks relating to our business • Catastrophe losses are unpredictable and may adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophic events, which can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, fires, explosions, earthquakes, tropical storms and terrorist acts. Property damage resulting from catastrophes is the greatest risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our business. For example, through December 31, 2006, we have incurred inception-to-date direct and assumed charges (including losses, loss settlement expenses and state assessments) relating to Hurricane Katrina totaling $327.0 million. We also incurred an $8.0 million reinsurance reinstatement premium in 2005 as a result of claims originating from Hurricane Katrina. The severe impact of this hurricane on our financial results was somewhat mitigated by ceded reinsurance totaling approximately $117.0 million. We have exposure for catastrophe claims under both our commercial insurance policies and our personal insurance policies. In addition, our automobile business exposes us to losses arising from floods and other perils. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our net income and could cause substantial volatility in our financial 11 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries results for any fiscal quarter or year or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. Catastrophes may also negatively affect our ability to write new business. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. • Because catastrophe models may not accurately predict future losses, we may inaccurately assess our exposure for future losses. The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Along with others in the industry, we use models developed by catastrophe modeling consultants in assessing our exposure to catastrophe losses that assume various conditions and probability scenarios; such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. The catastrophe models that we employ have been evolving since the early 1990s and use historical information about hurricanes, earthquakes and tornadoes and detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to their usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Examples of these limitations are significant variations in estimates between models and modelers and material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and assumptions. Such limitations lead to questionable predictive capability and post event measurements that have not been well understood or proven to be sufficiently reliable. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of company or state-specific policy language, demand surge for labor and materials and loss settlement expenses, which are subject to wide variation by catastrophe. Because the occurrence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may vary significantly from year to year, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations. In 2006, and in response to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, the two prominent catastrophe modeling companies made significant changes to their catastrophe models. These changes resulted in widely divergent results for the same or similar scenarios run through each company’s catastrophe model. Divergent model results reached for the same or similar catastrophe scenarios make it more difficult for us to accurately assess our catastrophe reinsurance coverage needs. • Our success depends on our ability to price accurately the risks we underwrite. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss settlement expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate pricing techniques; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; • our selection and application of appropriate pricing techniques; and • changes in applicable legal liability standards and in the civil litigation system generally. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would adversely affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either case, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. • Our reserves for property and casualty losses and costs related to settlement of property and casualty losses and our life reserves may be inadequate, which would have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our reserves for claims and future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate, which may result in future changes to earnings and/or a downgrade of our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish property and casualty reserves for loss and loss settlement expenses based on 12 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. Griffith, Ballard and Company, our independent actuaries calculate reserves for our life insurance products based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims. Our property and casualty reserves are only estimates; we determine the amount of these reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and costs we will incur on existing insurance policies. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the ultimate amounts of benefits and claims that we will pay, for, or the timing of payment of benefits and claims. The following factors may have a substantial impact on our future loss reserve development: • the length of time between the actual occurrence of a claim and the report date of the claim; • the amounts of claims settlements and awards; • changes in the cost of medical care, including the effect of inflation; • the cost of home/business repair, including the effect of inflation and the accessibility of labor and materials; • state regulatory requirements; and • the judicial environment, including, but not limited to, changes in case law, the impact of jury awards and the interpretation of policy provisions. Actual claims and claims settlement expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient or if we believe our reserves are insufficient, to cover our actual loss and loss settlement expenses, we would have to augment our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be material. • If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk that we and our insurance company subsidiaries underwrite. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions that are beyond our control. The availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our catastrophe and non-catastrophe reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal on January 1. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. For example, beginning January 1, 2007 our retention on our catastrophe reinsurance coverage increased from $15.0 million to $20.0 million and our coverage limit increased from $185.0 million to $200.0 million. The cost of this coverage increased by 19.0 percent compared to the cost of our 2006 coverage. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophe events within one policy year. Because our current catastrophe reinsurance program only allows for one automatic reinstatement at an additional reinstatement premium, we would be required to obtain a new catastrophe reinsurance policy to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. We may find it difficult to obtain such coverage, particularly if it is necessary to do so during hurricane season following the second catastrophe. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. • Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers. We transfer some of the risk we have from the direct policies that we write to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. The collectibility of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. 13 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries • Our geographic concentration in both our property and casualty insurance and life insurance segments ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions of certain states. The following states provided 54.6 percent of the direct premium volume in the property and casualty insurance segment in 2006: Texas (12.8 percent), Iowa (12.7 percent), Colorado (10.6 percent), Louisiana (10.4 percent) and Missouri (8.1 percent). The following states provided 81.2 percent of the direct statutory premium volume in the life insurance segment in 2006: Iowa (47.6 percent), Wisconsin (9.9 percent), Minnesota (9.4 percent), Nebraska (7.7 percent) and Illinois (6.6 percent). Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized natural perils, such as hurricanes or hailstorms, is increased in those areas where we have written significant numbers of property and casualty insurance policies. • A reduction in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based on criteria established by the agencies. Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best Company since 1994 (except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable)). Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. In addition, Standard & Poor’s has assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” to United Fire & Casualty Company and each of its active subsidiaries, with a negative outlook in 2006. A.M. Best historically has rated our property and casualty companies on a pooled basis. However, beginning in 2006, our companies were rated on a group basis, consistent with rating guideline changes A.M. Best recently adopted. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or could lead to increased borrowing costs in the future. Perceptions of our company by investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired. We believe that the ratings assigned by third-party rating agencies are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on our ratings by these agencies. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and insureds to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If an agency downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we would not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our sales and earnings would decrease. For example, many of our agencies and insureds have guidelines that require us to have an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” or higher. A reduction of our A.M. Best rating below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to a majority of our insureds or other potential insureds with similar ratings requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best below “A” would constitute an event of default under our credit facility. • If we cannot adequately meet our independent agents’ needs or keep pace with our competitors’ future technological advances, we may lose business. Our network of independent agents accounts for almost all of the gross premiums on insurance policies that we write and constitutes our primary distribution channel for our products. We do business with 891 property and casualty insurance agencies in 41 states and 899 life insurance agencies in 27 states. Our agents are independent and offer products of competing companies. Independent agents are not obligated to market or sell our insurance products or consult with us. Since many of our competitors also rely significantly on independent agents, we must compete for the business and goodwill of our independent agents. Some of our competitors may offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage and higher commissions for independent agents. Our agencies require the timely processing of applications and claims, as well as prompt attention to their questions and concerns. We use technology to provide our agencies with information and to process applications for insurance coverage and claims. Examples of such technology include the use of the Internet to provide agencies with access to policy information 14 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries and to submit underwriting and claims information. Although we believe we have good relationships with our independent agents, if we are unable to continue to adequately meet our independent agents’ needs and keep pace with our competitors’ future technological advances, we may not be able to retain the agents’ business. A material reduction in the amount of business that our independent agents sell for us would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our top life insurance segment agency produced 24.0 percent of our direct life insurance segment premium. • We are subject to interest rate fluctuations and declines in the value of investments held in our investment portfolio due to various market factors, including declines in credit quality related to investments held in our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations and other market changes, to declines in value due to market valuations and declines in credit quality related to investments held in our investment portfolio. Some of our products, principally fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” which is the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support our obligations under the contracts. In periods of increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace our invested assets with higher yielding assets to the extent needed to fund the higher rates we must pay with respect to our interest-sensitive products to keep them competitive. Consequently, we may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability, or face a decline in sales and loss of existing contracts and related assets. In periods of declining interest rates, we have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments than previously available. Moreover, borrowers may prepay fixed income securities, commercial mortgages, and mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested in order to borrow at lower market rates, exacerbating this risk. Because we are entitled to reset the interest rates on our annuities only at limited, pre-established intervals and because many of our policies have guaranteed interest rates, our spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. Due to the reinvestment risk described above, a decline in market interest rates available on investments could also reduce our return from investments of capital that do not support particular policy obligations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The adverse effect on us of fluctuations in interest rates may be exacerbated because we currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, a large portion (approximately 86.9 percent at December 31, 2006) of our investment portfolio in fixed income securities, including our portfolio of preferred debt trading securities. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates. We classify most (approximately 97.6 percent, at December 31, 2006) of our fixed income securities as available-for-sale. We must report the value of those investments at their current fair value. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the valuation of our fixed income investments, which could affect our stockholders’ equity. Increases in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals from our insurance products. In periods of increasing interest rates, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. For example, due to an increasing interest rate environment we experienced surrenders and withdrawals on our annuity products of $159.6 million in 2006, representing a 65.1 percent increase compared to surrenders and withdrawals in 2005. This process may lead to a net outflow of cash from our business. Such outflows may require us to sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are lower than our cost because of current market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. In addition, unanticipated withdrawals and terminations also may require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses in the current period. The fair value of securities in our investment portfolio may fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions or events relating to a particular issuer of securities. Changes in the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio could result in realized or unrealized investment losses, thereby affecting our stockholders’ equity. We are exposed to the chance that issuers of bonds that we hold will not be able to pay principal or interest when it is due. Credit defaults and impairments may cause write-downs in the value of the bonds we hold. Pervasive deterioration in the credit quality of issuers, changes in interest rate levels and changes in interest rate spreads between types of investments, could significantly affect the value of our invested assets and our earnings. 15 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries • Many factors, including the cyclical nature of our business, affect our financial performance and may affect the price of our common stock. The financial results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. We expect these cycles to continue. Rates for property and casualty insurance are influenced primarily by factors that are outside of our control, including market and competitive conditions and regulatory issues. Soft market conditions could require us to reduce premiums, limit premium increases, or discontinue offering certain of our insurance products in one or more states, resulting in a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our profitability, like the profitability of other companies in the industry, can be affected significantly by other factors, including: • rising levels of actual costs that we are unaware of at the time we price our products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • changes in loss reserves resulting from general claims and the legal environment, as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of our liability develop; and • increases in the cost of catastrophe and other reinsurance coverage. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. Fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may also be adversely affected from time to time by conditions affecting a specific investment and, more generally, by stock and other market fluctuations and general economic, market, and political conditions. Our ability to make a profit on insurance products, fixed annuities, and products with guaranteed interest features depends in part on the returns on investments supporting our obligations under these products. As previously described, the value of specific investments may fluctuate substantially. • We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and reduce our revenue and profitability. The insurance industry is highly competitive. In our property and casualty business and in our life business, we compete, and will continue to compete, with dozens of major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and smaller regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies, and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have far greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our premium revenue and our profitability could decline if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. We price our insurance products based on estimated profit margins, and we do not expect to be able to significantly reduce our current estimated profit margins in the near future. Many of our competitors, however, are better capitalized than we are and may be able to withstand significant reductions in their profit margins. If our competitors decide to target our policyholder base by offering lower-priced insurance, we may not be able to respond competitively, which could reduce our revenue and our profitability. • Regulations limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may decrease our profitability. From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, when our loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may resist or delay our efforts to raise rates in the future, even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to rate increases. Such resistance affects our ability in all product lines to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost. State 16 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries regulatory authorities may also impose rate rollbacks or require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, affecting our profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors. • We are subject to comprehensive laws and regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the states in which we operate. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is and will continue to be critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of state regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following: • Required licensing. We and our insurance company subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to revoke an existing license or deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to continue to sell insurance in or to enter or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired. • Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. If rate increases we deem necessary are not approved by a state insurance agency, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. Likewise, if insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state would be substantially impaired. • Restrictions on cancellation, non-renewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company’s ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. • Risk-based capital requirements. We and our insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, that require us and our insurance company subsidiaries to report our results of state specified risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Any failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us or our subsidiaries and affiliate to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. • Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between us, our subsidiary insurance companies and our affiliate generally must be disclosed to—and in some cases approved by—state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These laws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets, and otherwise continue to operate our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face 17 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries individual, group and class-action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks could have a negative effect on our profitability. • We are subject to assessments from state insurance facilities. We are currently monitoring developments with respect to various state facilities such as guaranty funds, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Alabama Insurance Underwriting Association, Texas FAIR Plan, Texas Windstorm Insurance Association and Mississippi Windstorm Underwriting Association. The ultimate impact of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma on these facilities is currently uncertain but could result in the facilities recognizing a financial deficit or a financial deficit greater than the level currently estimated. Already, we have been levied assessments by some of these states. They may have the ability to assess participating insurers additional amounts if, and when, financial deficits occur, adversely affecting our results of operations. While these facilities are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, the exposure to assessments and the availability of recoupments or premium rate increases from these facilities may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases, as well as the possibility of policies not being renewed in subsequent years. Related to the 2005 and 2004 hurricane seasons we were assessed a total of $6.1 million by state facilities through December 31, 2006, of which we have been able to recoup from policyholders $3.1 million. • We are subject to other state laws and regulations that impose additional administrative burdens and risks that may also affect our ability to earn profits. In addition to the foregoing discussion of state regulations posing particular risks to our profitability, our insurance company and our subsidiaries and affiliate are subject to other state laws and regulations in the states where they do business. These regulations involve, among other things: • restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; • certain required methods of accounting; • reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; • marketing practices; • capital adequacy; • the amount of dividends that can be paid to stockholders; • licensing of agents; • the use of non-public consumer information and related policy issues; • the use of credit history in underwriting and rating; • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company; • reporting with respect to financial condition; • periodic financial and market conduct exams performed by state insurance department examiners; • prior approval of reinsurance contracts and intercompany contracts; • approval of proxy statements; and • potential assessments in order to provide funds to settle covered claims under insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These and other state laws and regulations also impose administrative burdens and risks upon our operations that could similarly affect our profitability. Regulatory authorities enforcing these statutes are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than stockholders. 18 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries • The outcome of current class actions, industry investigations and regulatory proposals could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance (and insurance brokerage) industry has recently become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices, improper claims handling and other alleged misconduct, including the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business and misrepresentation in the scope of coverage. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a large number of companies in the industry have received or may receive subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory authorities or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts are expected to result in both enforcement actions and proposals for new state and federal regulation, which may have a negative affect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have been the target of a number of class action lawsuits arising from Hurricane Katrina relating to allegations of improper claims settlement practices, misrepresentations in the scope of coverage and other matters. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations, proceedings and lawsuits, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful and what form new regulations will have when finally adopted. It is also difficult to predict the impact on our business and financial condition, if any, of this increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation with respect to the insurance industry. • Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of our products. Under current federal and state income tax law our life insurance and annuity products receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give these products a competitive advantage over other non-insurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. Risks relating to our common stock • As an insurance company, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by state law. We are an insurance company domiciled in the State of Iowa and, as a result, we are subject to Iowa insurance laws restricting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity standards and laws that prohibit us from paying dividends except from the earned profits arising from our business. Our ability to pay dividends also depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiary insurance companies and the ability of our subsidiary insurance companies to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our subsidiary insurance companies are restricted by state insurance laws similar to those laws that restrict our payment of dividends. As a result of these restrictions, at times we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock, or we may be required to seek prior approval from the applicable regulatory authority before we can pay any such dividends. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. • The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, certain of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: 19 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries • variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results; • investor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and our company in particular; • market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market; • major catastrophic events; • departure of our key personnel. • Certain provisions of our organizational documents, as well as applicable insurance laws, could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management, prevent the sale of our company or prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the direction of our company, each of which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable laws governing corporations and insurance companies, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example: • Our board of directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our stockholders, our stockholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our board of directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual stockholder meetings to effect a change in control of our board of directors. • Our articles of incorporation limit rights of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. • Our articles of incorporation also set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire board of directors at three and the maximum at fifteen, and they require approval of holders of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to amend these provisions. • Our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to approve any plan of merger, consolidation or sale or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets. • Our board of directors may fill vacancies on the board of directors. • Our board of directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to issue “blank check” preferred shares having such rights, preferences and privileges as the board of directors may determine. • Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10.0 percent or more of our common stock. • Section 490.624A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act authorizes the terms and conditions of stock rights or options issued by us to include restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer, or receipt of such rights or options by a person, or group of persons, owning or offering to acquire a specified number or percentage of the outstanding common shares or other securities of the corporation. Further, the insurance laws of Iowa and the states in which our subsidiary insurance companies are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring direct or indirect control of us or our insurance company subsidiaries, generally defined as owning or having the power to vote 10.0 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, without the prior written approval of state regulators. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and these state laws governing corporations and insurance companies, may discourage potential acquisition proposals. These provisions and state laws may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, in particular through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or our company’s management may be unsuccessful, and the existence of such provisions may adversely affect market prices for our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. 20 United Fire & Casualty Company and Subsidiaries • Our largest stockholder may take actions conflicting with other stockholders’ interests. Based upon the number of shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006 our largest stockholder will have a beneficial interest in, and the power to vote or control the disposition of, approximately 18.9 percent of our issued and outstanding common stock. He is in a position to strongly influence the outcome of substantially all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including mergers involving our company, sales of all, or substantially all, of our assets and the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation. Also, he may have interests different than, or adverse to, those of our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 