ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors, in addition to those listed here. We have set forth additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Risks Relating to Our Business• The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are unpredictable and may adversely affect the results of our operations, liq uidity and financial condition. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophic events affecting multiple policyholders, which can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, fires, explosions, earthquakes, tropical storms and terrorist acts. Property damage resulting from catastrophes is the greatest risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our business. We have exposure for catastrophe losses under both our commercial insurance policies and our personal insurance policies. In addition, our automobile and inland marine business exposes us to losses arising from floods and other perils. Longer-term weather trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, including effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperature, sea levels, rain and snow. The emerging science regarding climate change and its connection to extreme weather events is far from conclusive. If a connection to increased extreme weather events related to climate change is ultimately proven true, this could increase the frequency and severity of catastrophe losses we experience in both coastal and non-coastal areas.Because the occurrence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may vary significantly from year to year, hist orical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations. In addition, as with catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for us to determine our ultimate losses associated with a particular catastrophic event. As our claims experience for a particular catastrophe develops, we may be required to adjust our reserves to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. Catastrophes may also negatively affect our ability to write new business. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property could impact claims severity for future catastrophic events. In addition, severity may increase after catastrophic events, as the demand for resources such as building materials and labor to repair damaged structures may inflate costs, and the amount of salvage value received for damaged property may decline. • Our reserves for property and casualty insurance losses and costs related to settlement of property and casualty losses and our life reserves for future policy benefits may be inadequate, which would have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our reserves for claims and future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate, which may result in future charges to earnings and/or a downgrade of our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish property and casualty loss reserves based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. On a quarterly basis, Regnier, the independent actuary for our property and casualty segment, estimates property and casualty product reserves based on many assumptions to validate the reasonableness of our claims reserves.Our property and casualty loss reserves are only estimates; we determine the amount of these loss reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and costs we will incur on existing insurance policies. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the ultimate amounts of benefits 12Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010and claims that we will pay or the timing of payment of benefits and claims. For a detailed discussion of our reserving process and the factors we consider in estimating reserves, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Actual losses and loss settlement expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our loss reserves are insufficient, or if we believe our loss reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and loss settlement expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves and incur charges to our earnings, which could indicate that premium levels were insufficient. These charges may be material. Griffith, the independent actuary for our life insurance segment, calculates life product reserves based on our assumptions, including estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.• The cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance business may affect our financial performance.The financial results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “soft” markets), followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “hard” markets). We expect these cycles to continue. Premium rates for property and casualty insurance are influenced by factors that are outside of our control, including market and competitive conditions and regulatory issues. Soft market conditions could require u s to reduce premiums, limit premium increases, or discontinue offering one or more of our insurance products in one or more states, resulting in a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. Fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on the results of our operations and financial condition.• We are subject to interest rate fluctuations and declines in the value of investments held in our investment portfolio due to various market factors that could negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations and to declines in the value of our investment portfolio, due to changes in market valuations and changes in credit quality related to individual investments. Some of our interest-sensitive products, principally our fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” which is the difference between the rates we are required to pay under these contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments, intended to support our obligations under these contracts.During periods when the interest rates paid on interest-sensitive insurance products are rising, we may not be able to reinvest our invested assets to achieve the higher rate of return necessary to compensate for the higher interest rates we must pay to keep these products competitive in the marketplace. Consequently, we may have to accept a lower spread and therefore lower profitability, or face a decline in sales of these products and a loss of related assets. During periods of declining interest rates, we may be unable to achieve similar rates of return on our reinvested or maturing assets. Moreover, this risk may be exacerbated by borrowers prepaying fixed income securities, commercial mortgages, and mortgag e-backed securities held in our investment portfolio in order to refinance at lower rates. Because we are only entitled to reset the interest rates on our annuities at limited, pre-established intervals, and because many of our annuity contracts have guaranteed interest rates, the profitability of these products could decrease or even become negative. Due to the reinvestment risk described above, a decline in market interest rates available on investments could also reduce our return from investments of capital that do not support particular policy obligations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The adverse effect on us from fluctuations in interest < /font>13Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010rates may be exacerbated b ecause we currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, a large portion (92.5 percent at December 31, 2010) of our investment portfolio in fixed income securities, particularly corporate bonds, including our portfolio of trading securities. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates. We classify the majority (99.2 percent, at December 31, 2010) of our fixed income securities, including our entire portfolio of trading securities, as available-for-sale. We report the value of those investments at their current fair value. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the valuation of our fixed income investments, which would affect our stockholders’ equity.Fluctuations in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and with drawals from our life insurance and annuity products. In periods of rising interest rates, surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with policy loans, may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. These surrenders, withdrawals and policy loans may also require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses in the current period. Terrorism and the threat of terrorism within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions, and heightened security measures, may cause significant volatility in the equity markets and in interest rates. Such activities may result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets, changes in interest rates caused by these activities.The fair value of securities in our investment portfolio may also fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions or events relating to a particular issuer of securities. Changes in the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio could result in realized or unrealized investment losses, thereby affecting our stockholders’ equity.We are exposed to the chance that issuers of bonds that we hold will not be able to pay principal or interest when due. Defaults and other impairments may cause write-downs in the value of the bonds we hold. Pervasive deterioration in the c redit quality of issuers, changes in interest rate levels and changes in interest rate spreads between types of investments could significantly affect the value of our invested assets and our earnings. • Continued difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over the slow economic recovery, level of U.S. national debt, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and global capital markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively impacted the U.S. economy. Although liquidity has improved, the market for fixed income instruments continues to experience some price volatility, credit downgrade events and elevated probabilities of default. Factors such as consumer spending, business in vestment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• Our investment portfolio contains various types of municipal bonds that expose us to the risk of default.At December 31, 2010, 25.2 percent of our total investment portfolio at fair market value, and 27.2 percent of our total fixed maturity securities at fair market value, were invested in tax-exempt municipal bonds. During or following an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The pr olonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could adversely impact the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. • Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on our business and reputation.Our business and operations rely on secure and efficient processing, storage and transmission of customer and company data, including personally identifiable information. Our ability to effectively operate our business depends upon our ability and the ability of certain third parties, including vendors and business partners, to access our computer systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and processing premiums, administering claims, and reporting our financial results. Our business and operations also depend upon our ability to safeguard personally identifiable information and other confidential and proprietary information belonging to us and our policyholders. Our systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hackers, computer viruses, and other scenarios in which our data may be compromised.Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in our facilities, networks or databases, or those of our vendors may occur, exposing us to liability and having an adverse impact on our business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of our data could harm our reputation, which could affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurances that we will be able to implement security measures adequate to prevent every security breach.• The effects of emerging claim and coverage iss ues and class action litigation on our business are uncertain.As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and/or size of claims. Examples of these issues include:• Judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability.• An increase of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation regarding claims handling and other practices. • An increase in the variety, number and size of claims relating to liability losses, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions.• Adverse changes in loss cost trends, including, but not limited to, inflationary pressure in medical costs; auto repair costs; and labor a nd materials costs to rebuild damaged structures.In addition, we have been the target of a number of class action lawsuits arising from Hurricane Katrina, relating to allegations of improper claims settlement practices, misrepresentations in the scope of coverage and other matters. It is difficult to predict both the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, and the impact, if any, they will have on our business and financial condition. However, rulings adverse to us in pending litigation arising from Hurricane Katrina could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, as well as on our results of operations. 15Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• We are exposed to credit risk in certain areas of our operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recovery, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers.In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us throug h independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the amounts due from independent agents and brokers.We are exposed to credit risk through our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our bonded principal will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder.We are exposed to credit risk with respect to our purchase of reinsurance. See the discussion in the risk fact titled “Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely manner, or at all,” for a discussion of the credit risk associated with our reinsurance program.To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk during a period of economic downturn. While we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequ ently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to credit risk could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.• We are subject to comprehensive state laws and regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the states in which we operate. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is, and will continue to be, critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following:• Required licensing. We, and our insurance company subsidiaries, operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to revoke an existing license or deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to continue to sell insurance or to enter or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired.• Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. When our loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may resist or delay our efforts to raise premium rates in the future, even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to premium rate increases. If premium rate increases we deem necessary are not approved, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. State regulatory authorities may even impose premium rate rollbacks or require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, affecting our profitability. If insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state could be substantially impaired.• Restrictions on cancellation, nonrenewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company’s ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. These laws and 1 6Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. For exam ple, the State of Louisiana has a law prohibiting the nonrenewal of homeowners policies written for longer than three years except under certain circumstances, such as for nonpayment of premium or fraud committed by the insured.• Risk-based capital and capital adequacy requirements. We, and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate, are subject to risk-based capital requirements that require us to report our results of risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. Any failure to meet applicable risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us or our subsidiaries and affiliate to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation.• Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between us, our subsidiary insurance compani es and our affiliate generally must be disclosed to, and in some cases approved by, state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently.• Required participation in guaranty funds and assigned risk pools. Certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in as signed risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations where participating insurers are required to provide coverage for assigned risks. The number of risks assigned to us by these plans is based on our share of total premiums written in the voluntary insurance market for that state. Pricing is controlled by the plan, often restricting our ability to charge the premium rate we might otherwise charge. Wherever possible, we utilize a designated servicing carrier to fulfill our obligations under these plans. Designated servicing carriers charge us fees to issue policies, adjust and settle claims and handle administrative reporting on our behalf. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired premium rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. While these facilities are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, the exposure to assessments and our ability to recoup these assessments th rough adequate premium rate increases may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period, due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These state funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.• Restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of investments. The various states in which we operate have certain restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of our investments. Generally speaking, these regulations require us to be conservative in the nature and quality of our investments and restrict our ability to invest in riskier, but often higher yield investments. These restrictions may make it more difficult for us to obtain our desired investment results.• State and federal tax laws. Under current federal and state income tax law, our life insurance and annuity products receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give these products a competitive advantage over other noninsurance products. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products, making them less comp etitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies.• Periodic financial and market conduct examinations. We are subject to periodic financial and market conduct examinations by the insurance departments in the various states in which we operate. Gene rally, it 17Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010is only the states in which we have a company incorporated that perform such examinations. Occasionally, however, we are examined by states in which we do not have a company incorporated. The costs of these examinations are borne by us and in any given year may contribute to our administrative expenses.• Terrorism Risk Insurance. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 includes coverage for most direct commercial lines of business, including coverage for losses from nuclear, biological and chemical exposures if coverage was afforded by an insurer, with exclusions for commercial automobile insurance, burglary and theft insurance, surety, professional liability insurance and farm owners multiple peril insurance and provides marketplace stability. For further information about the Terrorism Acts, and their effect on our operations, refer to the information in the Results of Operations section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These l aws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely premium rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets and otherwise continue to operate our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face individual, group and class action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks could have a negative effect on our profitability. • A reduction in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based on criteria established by the agencies. Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1994 - except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a run-off status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable). Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. Our property and casualty companies are rated on a group basis. Financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agency. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or could lead to increased borrowing costs in the future. Perceptions of our company by investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired.We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends on our ratings by this agency. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and policyholders to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If A.M. Best downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we will not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our premium revenue and earnings would decrease. For example, many of our agencies and policyholders have guidelines that require us to have an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” or higher. A red uction of our A.M. Best ratings below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to a portion of our current policyholders or other potential policyholders with similar ratings requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade for our property and casualty insurers by A.M. Best below “A” would constitute an event of default under our credit facility. • Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely mann er, or at all. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of the risk that we and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate underwrite. The availability and cost of 18Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010reinsurance is subject to market conditions that are beyond our control. The availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase may affect the level of our business and profitability. Although we purposely work with several reinsurance intermediaries and reinsurers, we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable premium rates. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophic events within one policy year. Because our current catastrophe reinsurance program only allows for one automatic reinstatement at an additional reinstatement premium, we would be required to obtain a new catastrophe reinsurance policy to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Such coverage may be difficult to obtain, particularly if it is necessary to do so during hurricane season following the second catastrophe. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk will increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we will have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our l iability to our policyholders. Our ability to collect reinsurance recoverables may be subject to uncertainty. Our losses must meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance agreement. Reinsurers must also have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance agreement or program. Particularly, following a major catastrophic event, our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.• Our geographic concentration in both our property and casualty insurance and life insurance segments ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions of certain states. The following states provided 56.6 percent of the direct premium written for the property and casualty insurance segment in 2010: Texas (15.8 percent), Iowa (15.7 percent), Missouri (9.3 percent), Louisiana (8.6 percent) and Illinois (7.2 percent). The following states provided 69.0 percent of the direct statutory premium written for the life insurance segment in 2010: Iowa (32.6 percent), Wisconsin (10.0 percent) and Illinois (9.8 percent), Minnesota (8.5 percent), Nebraska (8.1 percent). Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, w eather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized natural perils, such as hurricanes or hailstorms, is increased in those areas where we have written a significant amount of property insurance policies.• We face significant competitive pressur es in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and reduce our revenue and profitability. The insurance industry is highly competitive. In our property and casualty insurance business and in our life insurance business, we compete, and will continue to compete, with many major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and smaller regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies, and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have far greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our premium revenue and our profitability could decline if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. Our profitability could also be affected by the entry of new competitors into the market and the development of new pro ducts by new and existing competitors.We price our insurance products based on estimated profit margins, and we would not be able to significantly reduce our current estimated profit margins in the near future. Some of our competitors may be larger and have more capital than we do, and may be able to withstand significant reductions in their profit margins. If our competitors decide to target our policyholder base by offering lower-priced insurance, we may not be able to respond competitively, which could reduce our revenue and our profitability. • Our business depends on the uninterrupted operations of our facilities, systems and business functions.Our business depends on our employees’ ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal policies and claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business 19Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our facilities or a failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perfo rm such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions.In the event that a natural disaster or a terrorist act occurs, our company and employees could be directly adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event. We have an emergency preparedness plan that consists of the information and procedures required to enable rapid recovery from an occurrence, such as natural disaster or business disruption, which could potentially disable us for an extended period of time. This plan was tested during 2008, both by the Midwest flooding that affected our corporate headquarters in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and by Hurricane Ike that affected our Gulf Coast regional office in Galveston, Texas.• Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital.Since mid 2007, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels and the markets exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. Although market conditions have improved, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets.We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, in the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market and economic conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit rating and credit capacity, as well as customers’ or lenders’ perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity.• If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products, or that any new products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Our success will depend, in part, on ou r ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements, and, as a result, our business could suffer. 20Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• We are unable to predict the impact on us of the new federal financial regulatory reform.The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July, 2010, expands the federal presence in insurance oversight. The Dodd-Frank Act’s requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and nonadmitted insurance (property or casualty insurance placed from insurers that are eligible to accept insurance, but are not licensed to write insurance in a particular state). The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury with regulatory authority over all lines of insurance except health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The Federal Insurance Office has the power to, among other things, monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the overall financial system , coordinate federal policy on international insurance matters and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. The Dodd-Frank Act provides a framework for further regulation and governance initiatives. These regulations and initiatives will cover many aspects of public company governance including, but not limited to, new and enhanced executive compensation disclosures, nonbinding stockholder votes on executive compensation, new independence standards for compensation committee membership, and incentive compensation clawback policies. Because the SEC has not yet completed its required rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are unable to predict with certainty the overall impact these new regulations and initiatives will have on us. However, the cost of compliance with new regulations and initiatives could be significant, and mater ially adversely impact our results of operations, equity, business, and insurer financial strength and debt ratings.• We may face increased operating costs and underwriting losses arising from the federal health care reform legislation, as well as state health care reform proposals.The 2010 Acts, enacted in March 2010, may increase our operating costs and un derwriting losses. This landmark legislation may lead to numerous changes in the health care industry that could create additional operating costs for us, particularly with respect to our workers’ compensation and long-term care products. These costs might arise through the increased use of health care services by our claimants or the increased complexities in health care bills that could require additional levels of review. In addition, due to the expected number of new participants in the health care system and the potential for additional malpractice claims, we may experience increased underwriting risk in the lines of our business that provide management and professional liability insurance to individuals and businesses engaged in the health care industry. The lines of our business that provide professional liability insurance to attorneys, accountants and other professionals who advise clients regarding the health care reform legislation may also experience increased underwriting risk due to the c omplexity of the legislation. As a result, we may experience unanticipated underwriting losses with respect to these lines of business. Finally, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact upon us of the various state health care reform proposals. Consequently, our results of operations, equity, business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted.Risks Relating to Our Proposed Acquisition of Mercer Insurance Group, Inc.On November 30, 2010, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire 100 percent of the outstanding capital stock of Mercer for $28.25 per share in cash consideration (representing app roximately $191.0 million in total consideration). We expect the merger to close on or before March 31, 2011. The following risk factors relate specifically to risks associated with this planned merger, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or the performance of our common stock.• We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger or such benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of Mercer with our existing business. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of United Fire and Mercer. The integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude 21Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010realization of the full benefits expected by United Fire. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of Mercer or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • managing a significantly larger company; < /td>• maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; • integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; • retaining existing clients and attracting new clients; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention to the merger; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and• unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger.Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, dec reases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of Mercer are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. • There is a risk that the business we acquire as part of the merger may not be adequately reserved.Mercer’s property and casualty loss reserves are only estimates. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the adequacy of Mercer’s existing property and casualty loss reserves. Actual loss and loss settlement expenses paid following the merger might exceed currently established reserves. If the loss reserves on the business we acquire from Mercer prove to be insufficient, we will have to increase these reserves and incur charges against our earnings. These charges could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock.• The need for regulatory approval may delay the date of completion of the merger or may diminish the benefits of the merger.We are required to obtain approval of the merger from the Pennsylvania Insurance Department, the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, and the California Department of Insurance. Any or all of these state insurance departments may impose certain requirements or conditions as part of their approval of the merger. Satisfying any requirements or cond itions imposed by these state insurance departments may delay the date of 22Table of Contents United Fire & C asualty Company Form 10-K | 2010completion of the merger. Any requirements or conditions imposed by the state insurance departments may diminish the benefits of the merger to us. We are obligated to complete the merger unless the permits, authorizations, consents and approvals from these insurance departments:• impose conditions that: ◦ are materially inconsistent with any material terms contained in the merger agreement in a manner that adversely affects the economic value of the merger agreement to us, ◦ would require us or Mercer to divest or hold separate or otherwise take or commit to take any action that limits our freedom of action with respect to, or our ability to retain Mercer or any of the businesses, product lines or assets of our company, Mercer, or any of Mercer’s respective affiliates or subsidiaries, ◦ would otherwise individually or in the aggregate, result in a material negative impact on the business, assets, liabilities, propert ies or condition (financial or otherwise) of use and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or Mercer and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or • impose other conditions that would, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect with respect to Mercer.• The need for approval by Mercer’s stockholders may delay the date of completion of the merger, or may prevent the merger altogether.Holders of a majority of the shares of Mercer’s outstanding capital stock are required to vote in favor of the merger before the merger may be completed. Mercer has scheduled a special meeting on March 16, 2011, where Mercer stockholders will be asked to vote on the merger. If the scheduled special meeting of Mercer stockholders is delayed, or if a majority of Mercer’s stockholders do not vote in favor of the merger, the merger may not become effective wit hin the expected time frame or at all.• Failure to complete the merger or delays in completing the merger could negatively affect our business operations, financial condition or stock price.If the merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of risks, including t he following:• We may not realize the benefits expected from the merger, including a potentially enhanced financial and competitive position.• The current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the stock market about us, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock.• We must pay certain costs relating to the merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, even if the merger is not completed.Delays in completing the merger could exacerbate uncertainties concerning the effect of the merger, which may have an adverse effect on our business following the merger and could defer or detract from the realization of the benefits expected to result from the merger. 23Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• We expect to take on debt as part of the merger.Prior to the completion of the merger, we expect to take on debt to complement our available cash and funds obtained through the sale of invested assets to our subsidiaries. The financial and other covenants to which we may agree in connection with the occurrence of such debt and our increased indebtedness and high debt-to-equity ratio in comparison to our recent historical ratio may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. The increased indebtedness will also increase borrowing costs and the covenants pertaining to such indebtedness may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions or general corporate requirements. We will also be required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms and conditions of such debt may not be favorable to us, and as such, could further increase the cost of the merger, as well as the overall burden of such debt upon us and our business flexibility. Further, if any portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest, we will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from the combined company’s operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any of the foregoing consequences cou ld adversely affect our financials results. • Lawsuits have been filed against Mercer, the members of Mercer’s Board of Directors, and us challenging the merger, and an adverse judgment in such lawsuits or other lawsuits that may later be filed may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected time frame.Two putative class action lawsuits relating to the merger have been filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey of Mercer County, Chancery Division. Each of the cases was filed as a class action on behalf of all of Mercer’s shareholders and, on February 23, 2011, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint alleging, among other things, that the consideration that shareholders will receive in connection with the merger is inadequate, that Mercer and Mercer’s directors breached their fiduciary duties to shareholders in negotiating and approving the merger agreement, and that we aided and abetted the breach of fiduciary duty by Mercer’s directors. The Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint seeks various forms of relief, including injunctive relief that would, if granted, prevent the merger from closing in accordance with the agreed-upon terms. See Note 1 “Significant Accounting Policies” under the heading “Contingent Liabilities” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for more information about these lawsuits.One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any court of competent jurisdiction that prohibits, restrains or enjoins the completion of the merger shall be in effect. As such, if the plaintiffs in either of the above lawsuits are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting closing the merger on the agreed-upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective, or from becoming effective within the expected time frame. 24Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• Factors related to the merger could result in a potential downgrade of our financial strength ratings from A.M. Best.Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1994 - except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable). Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. Our property and casualty companies are rated on a group basis . For the last ten years, Mercer’s property and casualty insurers have also been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best. Financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers. If the merger is not completed for any reason or within a reasonable time frame, or if the integration of Mercer’s business operations into ours does not occur as expected or does not achieve the desired results and economies of scale, we and/or Mercer could be subject to a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best.We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. The ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends on the ratings that we receive from this agency. The failure to maintain either our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to these ratings, could cause current and future independent agents and policyholders to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors and adversely impact our business operations and financial results.• Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations after the merger.Our success after the merger, if completed, will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain key employees of both companies. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us. Accordingly, we may not be able to retain key employees following the merger. Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations after completion of the merger.• Loss of key agents or agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations after the merger.Our success after the merger, if completed, will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain key agent and agency relationships of both companies. Key agents or agencies may decide to terminate their relationship with us after the merger because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company. Accordingly, we may not be able to retai n key agents or agencies following the merger. Loss of key agents or agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations after completion of the merger.• Integration of Mercer’s information technology systems with ours may result in a loss of technical support from some information technology vendors.It is expected that followi ng the merger we will combine our data and Mercer’s data to a single, integrated information technology platform. This process will likely involve terminating the existing relationship with one or more of our or Mercer’s current information technology vendors. If the integration process does not progress smoothly or within the time frame anticipated by management, we could have difficulty receiving adequate technical support from cancelled vendors who might have little incentive to continue cooperating with us. Lack of adequate vendor technical support could also delay the technology integration process and lead to increased costs which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations after completion of the merger. 25 font>Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010Risks Relating to Our Common Stock• As an insurance company, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by state law.We are an insurance company domiciled in the State of Iowa and, as a result, we are subject to Iowa insurance laws restricting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity standards and laws that prohibit us from paying dividends except from the earned profits arising from our busines s. Our ability to pay dividends also depends upon the statutory capital and surplus levels and earnings of our subsidiary insurance companies and the ability of our subsidiary insurance companies to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our subsidiary insurance companies are restricted by state insurance laws similar to those laws that restrict our payment of dividends. As a result of these restrictions, at times we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock, or we may be required to seek prior approval from the applicable regulatory authority before we can pay any such dividends. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. • The price of our common stock may be volatile.The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • Variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results.• Inve stor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and our company in particular.• Market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market.• & nbsp;Major catastrophic events.• Departure of our key personnel.• Certain provisions of our organizational documents, as well as applicable insurance laws, could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management, prevent the sale of our company or prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the direction of our company, each of which could diminish the value of our common stock.Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable laws governing corporations and insurance companies, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example:• Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our stockholders, our stockholders have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual stockholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors.• Our articles of incorporation limit the rights of stockholders to call special stockholder meetings.• Our articles of incorporation set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors at nine and the maximum at 15, and they require approval of holders of two-thirds of all outst anding shares to amend these provisions.• Our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to approve any plan of merger, consolidation, or sale or exchange of all, or substantially all, of our assets. 26< /div>Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2010• Our Board of Directors may fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.• Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. • Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10.0 percent or more of our common stock.• Section 490.624A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act authorizes the terms and conditions of stock rights or options issued by us to include restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer, or receipt of such rights or options by a person, or group of persons, owning or offering to acquire a specified number or percentage of the outstanding common shares or other securities of the corporation.Further, the insurance laws of Iowa and the states in which our subsidiary insurance companies are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring direct or indirect control of us or our insurance company subsidiaries, generally defined as owning or having the power to vote 10.0 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, without the prior written approval of stat e regulators. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and these state laws governing corporations and insurance companies, may discourage potential acquisition proposals. These provisions and state laws may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, in particular through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or our company’s management may be unsuccessful, and the existence of such provisions may adversely affect market prices for our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 