Item 1A. Risk Factors The going private proposal, and any related Special Committee process, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results; in addition, there can be no assurance that any definitive offer for a change of control transaction will be made or, if made, that such a transaction will be consummated. On March 11, 2011, the Company announced the receipt of a going private proposal from the Schiffer/Gold family and Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. The Company's Board of Directors formed a special committee of independent directors to consider the proposal. The Special Committee, which has engaged independent financial and legal advisors, is also authorized to consider other proposals and strategic alternatives. The proposal and any related process undertaken by the Special Committee could cause distractions and disruptions in our business. We may also encounter difficulty in retaining officers and other key employees who may be concerned about their future roles with the Company if such a transaction were completed. Further, the costs associated with the evaluation of the proposal and any related processes are expected to be considerable, regardless of whether any transaction is consummated. All of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, there is no assurance that a definitive offer for a change of control transaction will be made, or, if made, that such a transaction will be consummated. If a change of control transaction does not occur, the share price of our common stock may decline significantly to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an expectation that a transaction will be completed. Inflation may affect the Company’s ability to keep pricing almost all of its merchandise at 99.99¢ or less The Company’s ability to provide quality merchandise for profitable resale primarily at a price point of 99.99¢ or less is subject to certain economic factors, which are beyond the Company’s control. Inflation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations, especially given the constraints on the Company’s ability to pass on incremental costs due to price increases or other factors. A sustained trend of significantly increased inflationary pressure could require the Company to abandon its customary practice of not pricing its merchandise at more than a dollar, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company can pass price increases on to customers to a certain extent, such as by selling smaller units for the same price and increasing the price of merchandise presently sold at less than 99.99¢ (e.g., the Company currently prices some items at 29.99¢, 59.99¢, and the like, and also sells other items at two at 99.99¢, three at 99.99¢, and so forth, but there are limits to the ability to effectively increase prices on a sufficiently wide range of merchandise in this manner while rarely exceeding a dollar). In certain circumstances, the Company has dropped and may continue to drop some items from its offerings due to vendor wholesale price increases or availability, which may adversely affect sales. In September 2008, the Company increased its primary price point to 99.99¢ from 99¢, and also added 99/100¢ to its price points on almost all items. See also “The Company is vulnerable to uncertain economic factors, changes in the minimum wage, and increased workers’ compensation and healthcare costs” for a discussion of additional risks attendant to inflationary conditions. 11 Table of Contents The Company is dependent primarily on new store openings for future growth The Company’s ability to generate growth in sales and operating income depends in part on its ability to successfully open and operate new stores outside of its core market of Southern California and to manage future growth profitably. The Company’s strategy depends on many factors, including its ability to identify suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiate leases or purchases with acceptable terms, refurbish stores, successfully compete against local competition and the increasing presence of large and successful companies entering or expanding into the markets in which the Company operates, upgrade its financial and management information systems and controls, gain brand recognition and acceptance in new markets, and manage operating expenses and product costs. In addition, the Company must be able to hire, train, motivate, and retain competent managers and store personnel at increasing distances from the Company’s headquarters. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control or are difficult to manage. As a result, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to achieve its goals with respect to growth. Any failure by the Company to achieve these goals on a timely basis, differentiate itself and obtain acceptance in markets in which it currently has limited or no presence, attract and retain management and other qualified personnel, appropriately upgrade its financial and management information systems and controls, and manage operating expenses could adversely affect its future operating results and its ability to execute the Company’s business strategy. A variety of factors, including store location, store size, local demographics, rental terms, competition, the level of store sales, availability of locally sourced as well as intra-Company distribution of merchandise, locally prevailing wages and labor pools, distance and time from existing distribution centers, local regulations, and the level of initial advertising, influence if and when a store becomes profitable. Assuming that planned expansion occurs as anticipated, the store base will include a portion of stores with relatively short operating histories. New stores may not achieve the sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins historically achieved at existing stores. If new stores on average fail to achieve these results, planned expansion could produce a further decrease in overall sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins. Increases in the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with the opening of new stores could also contribute to a decrease in operating margins. New stores opened in existing and in new markets have in the past and may in the future be less profitable than existing stores in the Company’s core Southern California market and/or may reduce retail sales of existing stores, negatively affecting comparable store sales. As the Company expands beyond its base in the Southwestern United States, differences in the available labor pool and potential customers could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s operations are concentrated in California As of April 2, 2011, 211 of the Company’s 285 stores were located in California (with 35 stores in Texas, 27 stores in Arizona and 12 stores in Nevada). The Company expects that it will continue to open additional stores in as well as outside of California. For the foreseeable future, the Company’s results of operations will depend significantly on trends in the California economy. Further declines in retail spending on higher margin discretionary items and continuing trends of increasing demand for lower margin food products due to continuing poor economic conditions in California may negatively impact our operations and profitability. California has also historically enacted minimum wages that exceed federal standards (and certain of its cities have enacted “living wage” laws that exceed State minimum wage laws) and California typically has other factors making compliance, litigation and workers’ compensation claims more prevalent and costly. Additional local regulation in certain California cities may further pressure margins. 12 Table of Contents The impact of the Company’s Texas stores on the Company’s profitability is uncertain The Company has historically experienced, and currently continues to experience, lower sales per store and sales per estimated saleable square foot in its Texas stores compared to its non-Texas stores. There can be no assurance that the Company’s Texas operations can have any sustained positive contribution to the Company’s profitability. Material damage to, or interruptions to, the Company’s information systems as a result of external factors, staffing shortages and difficulties in updating its existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations The Company depends on information technology systems for the efficient functioning of its business. Such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. Any material interruptions or the cost of replacements may have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations. The Company also relies heavily on its information technology staff. If the Company cannot meet its staffing needs in this area, the Company may not be able to maintain or improve its systems in the future. Further, the Company still has certain legacy systems that are not generally supportable by outside vendors, and should those of its information technology team who are conversant with such systems leave, these legacy systems could be without effective support. The Company relies on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems. The software programs supporting many of the Company’s systems are maintained and supported by independent software companies. The inability of these companies to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs might disrupt or reduce the efficiency of its operations if the Company were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of the Company’s operations. Natural disasters, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts, and global political events could cause temporary or permanent distribution center or store closures, impair the Company’s ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory, or decrease customer traffic, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial performance The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and tsunamis, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which the Company’s suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial performance. These events could result in the closure of one or more of the Company’s distribution centers or a significant number of stores, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to the Company’s distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in its stores, and disruption to its information systems. The Company’s current insurance program may expose the Company to unexpected costs and negatively affect its financial performance The Company’s insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that the Company believes are prudent. However, there are types of losses the Company may incur but against which it cannot be insured or which the Company believes are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to employment practices, acts of war, employee and certain other crime and some natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis. If the Company incurs these losses and they are material, the Company’s business could suffer. In addition, the Company self-insures a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation and general liability programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying the Company’s recorded liabilities for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company continues to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, the Company is effectively self-insured for property losses up to the amount of its deductibles. If the Company experiences a greater number of these losses than it anticipates, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents The Company could experience disruptions in receiving and distribution The Company’s success depends upon whether receiving and shipments are processed timely, accurately and efficiently. As the Company continues to grow, it may face increased or unexpected demands on warehouse operations, as well as unexpected demands on its transportation network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments from distribution centers that are increasingly further away will increase transportation costs and may create transportation scheduling strains. The very nature of the Company’s closeout business makes it uniquely susceptible to periodic and difficult to foresee warehouse/distribution center overcrowding caused by spikes in inventory resulting from opportunistic closeout purchases. Such demands could cause delays in delivery of merchandise to and from warehouses and/or to stores. The Company periodically evaluates new warehouse distribution and merchandising systems and could experience interruptions during implementations of new facilities and systems. A fire, earthquake, or other disaster at the Company’s warehouses could also hurt the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly because much of the Company’s merchandise consists of closeouts and other irreplaceable products. The Company also faces the possibility of future labor unrest that could disrupt the Company’s receiving, processing, and shipment of merchandise. The Company depends upon its relationships with suppliers and the availability of closeout and other special-situation merchandise The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to locate and purchase quality closeout and other special-situation merchandise at attractive prices. This supports a changing mix of name-brand and other merchandise primarily within the 99.99¢ price point. The Company cannot be certain that such merchandise will continue to be available in the future at prices consistent with the Company business plan and/or historical costs. Further, the Company may not be able to find and purchase merchandise in necessary quantities, particularly as it grows and therefore requires a greater availability of such merchandise at competitive prices. Additionally, suppliers sometimes restrict the advertising, promotion and method of distribution of their merchandise. These restrictions in turn may make it more difficult for the Company to quickly sell these items from inventory. Although the Company believes its relationships with suppliers are good, the Company typically does not have long-term agreements or pricing commitments with any suppliers. As a result, the Company must continuously seek out buying opportunities from existing suppliers and from new sources. There is increasing competition for these opportunities with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores, and various other companies and individuals as the extreme value retail segment continues to expand outside and within existing retail channels. There is also a growth in consolidation among vendors and suppliers of merchandise targeted by the Company. A disruption in the availability of merchandise at attractive prices could impair the Company’s business. The Company purchases in large volumes and its inventory is highly concentrated To obtain inventory at attractive prices, the Company takes advantage of large volume purchases, closeouts and other special situations. As a result, inventory levels are generally higher than other discount retailers and from time to time this can result in an over-capacity situation in the warehouses and place stress on the Company’s warehouse and distribution operations as well as the back rooms of its retail stores. This can also result in shrink due to spoilage if merchandise cannot be sold in anticipated timeframes. The Company’s short-term and long-term store and warehouse inventory, net of allowance, approximated $196.1 million and $176.0 million at April 2, 2011 and March 27, 2010, respectively. The Company periodically reviews the net realizable value of its inventory and makes adjustments to its carrying value when appropriate. The current carrying value of inventory reflects the Company’s belief that it will realize the net values recorded on the balance sheet. However, the Company may not do so, and if it does not, this may result in overcrowding and supply chain difficulties. If the Company sells large portions of inventory at amounts less than their carrying value or if it writes down or otherwise disposes of a significant part of inventory, cost of sales, gross profit, operating income, and net income could decline significantly during the period in which such event or events occur. Margins could also be negatively affected should the grocery category sales become a larger percentage of total sales in the future, and by increases in shrinkage and spoilage from perishable products. 14 Table of Contents If the Company fails to protect its brand name, competitors may adopt trade names that dilute the value of the Company’s brand name The Company may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce its trademark in each jurisdiction in which it does business. Also, the Company may not always be able to successfully enforce its trademarks against competitors or against challenges by others. The Company’s failure to successfully protect its trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of its brand recognition, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company faces strong competition The Company competes in both the acquisition of inventory and sale of merchandise with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, single price point merchandisers, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores and other retailers. It also competes for retail real estate sites. In the future, new companies may also enter the extreme value retail industry. It is also becoming more common for superstores to sell products competitive with the Company’s product offerings. Additionally, the Company currently faces increasing competition for the purchase of quality closeout and other special-situation merchandise, and some of these competitors are entering or may enter the Company’s traditional markets. Also, as it expands, the Company will enter new markets where its own brand is weaker and established brands are stronger, and where its own brand value may have been diluted by other retailers with similar names appearances and/or business models. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources and buying power than the Company does, as well as nationwide name-recognition and organization. The Company’s ability to compete will depend on many factors including the ability to successfully purchase and resell merchandise at lower prices than competitors and the ability to differentiate itself from competitors that do not share the Company’s price and merchandise attributes, yet may appear similar to prospective customers. The Company also faces competition from other retailers with similar names and/or appearances. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors in both the acquisition of inventory and the sale of merchandise. The Company is vulnerable to uncertain economic factors, changes in the minimum wage, and increased workers’ compensation and healthcare costs The Company’s future results of operations and ability to provide quality merchandise constrained by our price points that are primarily 99.99¢ or less could be hindered by certain economic factors beyond its control, including but not limited to: - future inflation both in the United States as well as in other countries in which the products it sells are manufactured or from which parts and materials are sourced; - increases in prices from our merchandise, supply and service vendors; - increases in employee health and other benefit costs and the impact of new federal health care laws and regulations; - increases in minimum and prevailing wage levels, as well as “living wage” pressures; - increases in government regulatory compliance costs; - decreases in consumer confidence levels; - increases in transportation and fuel costs, which affect both the Company, as it ships over longer distances, and its customers and suppliers; - increases in unionization efforts, including campaigns at the store and warehouse levels; - increases in workers’ compensation costs and self-insured workers’ compensation liabilities due to increased claims costs, as well as political and legislative pressure or judicial rulings. The Company faces risks associated with international sales and purchases International sales historically have not been important to the Company’s overall net sales. However, some of the Company’s inventory is manufactured outside the United States and there are many risks associated with doing business internationally. International transactions may be subject to risks such as: - political instability; 15 Table of Contents - lack of knowledge by foreign manufacturers of or compliance with applicable federal and state product, content, packaging and other laws, rules and regulations; - foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; - uncertainty in dealing with foreign vendors and countries where the rule of law is less established; - risk of loss due to overseas transportation; - import and customs review can delay delivery of products as could labor disruptions at ports; - changes in import and export regulations, including “trade wars” and retaliatory responses; - changes in tariff, import duties and freight rates; - testing and compliance. The United States and other countries have at times proposed various forms of protectionist trade legislation. Any resulting changes in current tariff structures or other trade policies could result in increases in the cost of and/or reduction in the availability of certain merchandise and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to purchase such merchandise. The Company has potential risks regarding its store physical inventories Currently, the Company does not have a perpetual inventory system in place and believes that such process will not be feasible in the near future. Furthermore, physical inventories in all existing stores are not performed at the end of each fiscal period, and there are additional processes and procedures surrounding store physical inventories that the Company believes need to be improved. In particular, the Company has identified that certain personnel managing or performing physical inventories need additional training in order to consistently follow the Company’s physical inventory processes and procedures, and properly document the physical inventory results. If these physical inventory processes and procedures are not improved, this could have an adverse affect on the Company’s physical inventory results, shrinkage and margins. The Company could encounter risks related to transactions with affiliates The Company leases 13 of its stores and a parking lot for one of those stores from the Gold family and their affiliates, of which 12 stores are leased on a month to month basis. Under current policy, the Company only enters into real estate transactions with affiliates for the renewal or modification of existing leases and on occasions where it determines that such transactions are in the Company’s best interests. Moreover, the independent members of the Board of Directors must unanimously approve all real estate transactions between the Company and its affiliates. They must also determine that such transactions are no less favorable than a negotiated arm’s-length transaction with a third party. The Company cannot guarantee that it will reach agreements with the Gold family on renewal terms for the properties it currently leases from them. Also, even if terms were negotiated that were acceptable to the Company, it cannot be certain that such terms would meet the standard required for approval by the independent directors. If the Company fails to renew one or more of these leases, it would be forced to relocate or close the leased stores. Any relocations or closures could potentially result in significant closure expense and could adversely affect the Company’s net sales and operating results. The Company relies heavily on its executive management team The Company relies heavily on the continued service of its executive management team. The Company does not have employment agreements with any of its officers. Also, the Company does not maintain key person life insurance on any of its officers. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and the Company may not successfully attract, assimilate or sufficiently retain the necessary number of qualified candidates. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate and may be affected by seasonal buying patterns Historically, the Company’s highest net sales and highest operating income have occurred during the quarter ended on or near December 31, which includes the Christmas and Halloween selling seasons. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, the Company generated approximately 25.7% and 26.5%, respectively, of its net sales during this quarter. If for any reason the Company’s net sales were to fall below norms during this quarter, it could have an adverse impact on profitability and impair the results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Transportation scheduling, warehouse capacity constraints, supply chain disruptions, adverse weather conditions, labor disruptions or other disruptions during the peak holiday season could also affect net sales and profitability for the fiscal year. 16 Table of Contents In addition to seasonality, many other factors may cause the results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These factors, some beyond the Company’s control, include the following: - the number, size and location of new stores and timing of new store openings; - the distance of new stores from existing stores and distribution sources; - the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; - the integration of new stores into operations; - the general economic health of the extreme value retail industry; - changes in the mix of products sold; - increases in fuel, shipping merchandise and energy costs; - the ability to successfully manage inventory levels and product mix across its multiple distribution centers and its stores; - changes in personnel; - the expansion by competitors into geographic markets in which they have not historically had a strong presence; - fluctuations in the amount of consumer spending; and - the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the growth of the business and the Company’s ability to uniformly capture such costs. The Company could be exposed to product liability or packaging violation claims The Company purchases many products on a closeout basis, some of which are manufactured or distributed by overseas entities, and some of which are purchased by the Company through brokers or other intermediaries as opposed to directly from their manufacturing or distribution sources. Many products are also sourced directly from manufacturers. The closeout nature of certain of these products and transactions may impact the Company’s opportunity to investigate all aspects of these products. The Company attempts to ensure compliance, and to test products when appropriate, as well as to procure product insurance from its vendors and to be listed as an additional insured for certain products and/or by certain product vendors, and it does not purchase merchandise when it is cognizant of or foresees a problem, but there can be no assurance that the Company will consistently succeed in these efforts. The Company has or has had, and in the future could face, labeling, environmental, or other claims, from private litigants as well as from governmental agencies. The Company faces risks related to protection of customers’ banking and merchant card data, as well as other data related to the Company’s employees, customers, vendors and other parties In connection with merchant card sales and other transactions, including bank cards, debit cards, credit cards and other merchant cards, the Company transmits confidential banking and merchant card information. Additionally, as part of the Company’s normal business activities, the Company collects and stores certain information, related to its employees, customers, vendors and other parties. The Company has certain procedures and technology in place to protect such data, but third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this information, and the Company’s security measures and those of our banks, merchant card processing and other technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. Any security breach could expose the Company to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. The Company is subject to environmental regulations Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, current or previous owners or occupants of property may face liability associated with hazardous substances. These laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to fault. In the future, the Company may be required to incur substantial costs for preventive or remedial measures associated with hazardous materials. The Company has several storage tanks at its warehouse facilities, including: an aboveground and an underground diesel storage tank at the City of Commerce, California warehouse; ammonia storage tanks at the Southern California cold storage facility and the Texas warehouse; aboveground diesel and propane storage tanks at the Texas warehouse; an aboveground propane storage tank at the main Southern California warehouse; an aboveground propane storage tank at the Company’s leased Slauson distribution center in City of Commerce, California; and an aboveground propane tank located at the warehouse the Company owns in Eagan, Minnesota, which is currently being marketed for sale. Although the Company has not been notified of, and is not aware of, any material current environmental liability, claim or non-compliance, it could incur costs in the future related to owned properties, leased properties, storage tanks, or other business properties and/or activities. In the ordinary course of business, the Company handles or disposes of commonplace household products that are classified as hazardous materials under various environmental laws and regulations. The Company has adopted policies regarding the handling and disposal of these products, but the Company cannot be assured that its policies and training are comprehensive and/or are consistently followed, and the Company is still potentially subject to liability under, or violations of, these environmental laws and regulations in the future even if its policies are consistently followed. 17 Table of Contents Anti-takeover effect; concentration of ownership by existing officers and principal stockholders In addition to some governing provisions in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, the Company is also subject to certain California laws and regulations which could delay, discourage or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in control transaction, even if such actions would benefit both the Company and its shareholders. Moreover, David Gold, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of his family (including Eric Schiffer, Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Gold, President and Chief Operating Officer and Howard Gold, Executive Vice President of Special Projects) and certain of their affiliates and the Company’s other directors and executive officers beneficially own as of April 2, 2011, an aggregate of 23,741,645, or 33.7%, of the Company’s outstanding common shares. As a result, they have the ability to influence the Company’s policies and matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors and other corporate action, and potentially to prevent a change in control. This could adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders and could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock price could decrease and fluctuate significantly Trading prices for the Company’s common stock could decrease and fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including: - the reasons set forth above under “The consideration of the going private proposal and any related process could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results; in addition, there can be no assurance that any definitive offer for a change of control transaction will be made, or, if made, that such a transaction will be consummated”; - the depth of the market for the Company’s common stock; - changes in expectations of future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts; - variations in operating results; - conditions or trends in the industry or industries of any significant vendors or other stakeholders; - the conditions of the market generally or the extreme value or retail industries; - additions or departures of key personnel; - future sales of common stock by the Company, its officers and the principal shareholders; - government regulation affecting the business; - increased competition; - increases in minimum wages; - workers’ compensation costs and new laws and regulations; - the Company’s ability to control shrink; - consolidation of consumer product companies; - municipal regulation of “dollar” stores; and - other risk factors as disclosed herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 