Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K Report and the following information: Industry Factors The U.S. and global economies have experienced a recession, unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, and significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S. residential real estate markets, all of which present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal; the U.S. Government has responded to these circumstances with a variety of proposed and enacted measures; there can be no assurance that these measures will successfully address these circumstances Commencing in 2007 and continuing throughout 2008 and into 2009, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal. These developments include a general recession both globally and in the U.S. and have contributed to substantial volatility in the equity securities markets, as well as volatility and a tightening of liquidity in the credit markets. In response, Congress adopted economic stimulus bills that former President Bush and President Obama signed into law at various times in 2008 and 2009, and the Federal Reserve Board was prompted to decrease its discount rate and the federal funds rate numerous times during 2008. 14 Table of Contents In addition, financial and credit conditions in the domestic residential real estate markets have deteriorated significantly, which has led to significant deterioration in certain financial markets, particularly the markets for residential mortgage-backed securities and for collateralized debt obligations backed by residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations secured by nonconforming loans. These conditions have rendered it more difficult for financial institutions and others to obtain transparent valuations for various portfolio debt securities, especially collateralized debt obligations backed by residential mortgage-backed securities or other collateral, including corporate obligations. Credit spreads have widened and a general lack of liquidity exists in the marketplace. This has resulted in decreases in the fair value of investment securities of these types. To help mitigate these conditions, on July 30, 2008, former President Bush signed into law a housing bill which grants the Treasury Department broad authority to safeguard Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and authorizes the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in refinanced mortgages. In the third quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets reached unprecedented levels. On October 3, 2008, former President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the EESA) in response to the recent financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. The EESA was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008, in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to the EESA, the maximum deposit insurance amount was temporarily increased from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program under which the FDIC will fully guarantee until December 31, 2009, all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts of insured depository institutions that do not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. Pursuant to the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the FDIC will also guarantee newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating financial institutions and their qualifying holding companies. All eligible institutions participated in the program without cost for the first 30 days of the program. After December 5, 2008, institutions are assessed at the rate of ten basis points for transaction account balances in excess of $250,000 and at the rate, on an annualized basis, of 50 to 100 basis points of the amount of debt issued (on a sliding scale, depending on length of maturity of the debt). Union Bank has elected to participate in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Further, pursuant to the EESA, on October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced a voluntary Capital Purchase Program under its Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) pursuant to which the Treasury will purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of qualifying U.S. financial institutions. The nine largest banks in the U.S. initially agreed to participate in this program, with the U.S. Treasury purchasing an aggregate of $125 billion in senior preferred stock in such banks and allocating an additional $125 billion to the purchase of senior preferred stock in other banking institutions. The purpose of the program is to provide substantial new capital to the U.S. banking industry. Many banks and bank holding companies have participated in this program. On January 19, 2009, the Senate voted to approve the release of an additional $350 billion in TARP funds, making a vote by the House of Representatives unnecessary and resulting in the availability of such additional funds to the U.S. Treasury. UnionBanCal Corporation, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, is not eligible to participate in the Capital Purchase Program. On February 17, 2009 President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) in an attempt to reverse the recent U.S. economic downturn. A large portion of the ARRA is devoted to new federal spending programs designed to increase economic output, decrease unemployment and invest in national infrastructure. Of the $787 billion in federal spending appropriated by the ARRA, $286 billion will be devoted to tax cuts, $120 billion will be used to fund infrastructure projects and $381 billion will be allocated for social programs and other spending. A substantial portion of the 15 Table of Contents appropriation funds will go directly to the states, which was a key element in the recent budget approved by the California Legislature and signed by Governor Schwarzenegger on February 20, 2009. It cannot be predicted whether these recent governmental actions will result in significant improvement in financial and economic conditions affecting the banking industry and the U.S. economy. If, notwithstanding the federal government's recent fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to remain in a recessionary condition for an extended period, this would present additional significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for our company. In addition, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, we have not been eligible to participate in federal programs such as TARP and may not qualify for participation in future federal programs. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets and businesses of our company may be affected, these factors could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and our company. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, and continuing into 2009, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these volatile and disrupted credit markets, our customers' ability to raise capital and refinance maturing obligations could be adversely affected, and this could result in a further adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry Dramatic declines in the housing market in the U.S. in general, and in California in particular, during 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict whether the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and other governmental measures. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers and counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors. 16 Table of Contents •The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. •Significant fluctuations in the prices of equity and fixed income securities could adversely impact the revenues of our asset management and trust business. Fees charged are based upon asset values, and declines in values proportionately reduce fees charged. •Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. •On December 16, 2008, the FDIC approved a uniform increase in assessment rates of 7 basis points (annual rate) for the first quarter of 2009, resulting in base annual assessment rates for institutions in Risk Category I of 12 to 14 basis points and in Risk Categories II, III and IV of 17, 35 and 50 basis points, respectively. As described further in the next risk factor below, on February 27, 2009, the Board of Directors of the FDIC voted to amend the restoration plan for the Deposit Insurance Fund; adopt an interim rule (subject to comment) imposing an emergency special assessment on insured institutions of 20 basis points on June 30, 2009 (to be collected on September 30, 2009), and permitting the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary; implement changes to the risk-based assessment system; and set rates beginning the second quarter of 2009. Banks in Risk Category I will pay initial base assessment rates ranging from 12 to 16 basis points on an annual basis, beginning on April 1, 2009, while the base annual assessment rates for institutions in Risk Categories II, III and IV will be adjusted to 22, 32 and 45 basis points, respectively. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums to restore the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC to at least 1.15 percent within seven years as required by the Reform Act and the amended restoration plan. In addition, to the extent that assessments of participants in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (described in "Economic and Financial Crisis and Government's Response" above) are insufficient to cover the expenses or losses arising from the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the FDIC may impose one or more emergency special assessments on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. Changes in the premiums payable to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will increase our costs and could adversely affect our business Deposits of Union Bank are insured up to statutory limits by the FDIC, and, accordingly, are subjected to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. In November 2006, the FDIC issued a final rule, effective January 1, 2007, that created a new assessment system designed to more closely tie what banks pay for deposit insurance to the risks they pose and adopted a new base schedule of rates that the FDIC can adjust up or down, depending on the revenue needs of the insurance fund. This assessment system resulted in annual assessments on deposits of Union Bank of approximately 5 basis points through 2008. Prior to this change, Union Bank was not paying any insurance assessments on deposits under the FDIC's risk-related assessment system. An FDIC credit for prior contributions offset the assessment for 2007 and part of 2008. Since this credit was exceeded in the second quarter of 2008, the deposit insurance assessments Union Bank pays have increased our costs. As a result of recent and significant bank failures, the FDIC has determined that the reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund was 0.76 percent as of September 30, 2008 and 0.40 percent as of December 31, 2008 (preliminary), the lowest reserve ratio for the combined bank and thrift insurance fund since 1993. In accordance with the Reform Act, the FDIC must establish and implement a plan within 90 days to restore the reserve ratio to 1.15 percent within five years (subject to extension due to 17 Table of Contents extraordinary circumstances). For the quarter beginning January 1, 2009, the FDIC has raised the base annual assessment rate for institutions in Risk Category I to between 12 to 14 basis points and in Risk Categories II, III and IV to 17, 35 and 50 basis points, respectively. An institution's assessment rate could be lowered by as much as two basis points based on the ratio of its long-term unsecured debt to deposits or, for smaller institutions, by the ratio of its Tier 1 capital in excess of 15 percent to deposits. The assessment rate would be adjusted towards the maximum rate for Risk Category I institutions that have a high level of brokered deposits or have experienced higher levels of asset growth (other than through acquisitions) and could be increased by as much as 10 basis points for institutions in Risk Categories II, III and IV whose ratio of brokered deposits to deposits exceeds 10 percent. An institution's base assessment rate would also be increased if an institution's ratio of secured liabilities (including Federal Home Loan Bank advances) to deposits exceeds 15 percent. The maximum adjustment for secured liabilities for institutions in Risk Categories I, II, III and IV would be 7, 10, 15 and 22.5 basis points, respectively. On February 27, 2009, the Board of Directors of the FDIC voted to amend the restoration plan for the Deposit Insurance Fund, adopt an interim rule (subject to comment) imposing an emergency special assessment on insured institutions of 20 basis points on June 30, 2009 (to be collected on September 30, 2009), implement changes to the risk-based assessment system, and set rates beginning the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC extended the restoration plan period to seven years, concluding that the problems facing the financial services sector and the economy at large constitute extraordinary circumstances permitting such extension. The interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or if the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund falls to a level which shall be zero or close to negative at the end of a calendar quarter. The amended restoration plan was accompanied by a final rule that sets assessment rates and makes adjustments designed to improve how the assessment system differentiates for risk. Under the final rule, banks in Risk Category I will pay initial base assessment rates ranging from 12 to 16 basis points on an annual basis, beginning on April 1, 2009, while the base annual assessment rates for institutions in Risk Categories II, III and IV will be adjusted to 22, 32 and 45 basis points, respectively. The final rule provides incentives in the form of a reduction in assessment rates for institutions that hold long-term unsecured debt and provides for increases in the base assessment rates for institutions that rely significantly on brokered deposits or secured liabilities. In addition, to the extent that assessments of participants in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (described in "Economic and Financial Crisis and Government's Response" above) are insufficient to cover the expenses or losses arising from the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the FDIC may impose one or more emergency special assessments on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. Each such special assessment will be computed with reference to the amount by which an insured depository institution's average total assets exceed the sum of the institution's average total tangible equity and average total subordinated debt. Any increases in the deposit insurance assessments Union Bank pays would further increase our costs. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. The FDIC has been appointed receiver of over 40 insured depository institutions since the beginning of 2008, and some industry experts have predicted that hundreds of financial institutions could fail over the next few years. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or 18 Table of Contents derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effects of changes in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will likely continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to BTMU's ownership of us, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and "MD&A—Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for discussion of other laws and regulations that may affect our business. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers In particular, there have been proposals made by President Obama, members of Congress and others that could reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. For example, on February 18, 2009, President Obama announced "The Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan" as part of a plan designed to help up to 7 to 9 million families restructure or refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosure. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. 19 Table of Contents The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs and assumptions to estimate fair value. Because generally accepted accounting principles require fair value measurements to reflect appropriate adjustments for risks related to liquidity and the use of unobservable assumptions, we may recognize unrealized losses even if we believe that the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact and has impacted our margin spread, that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, causing us to incur increased funding costs The banking industry and we are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments either with us or with external providers. In addition, our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC-insured accounts. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. 20 Table of Contents The continuing war on terrorism and overseas military conflicts could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon and Washington, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources that are well in excess of ours. Competition in our industry is likely to further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, particularly in our principal markets (such as JPMorgan Chase's acquisition of Washington Mutual and Wells Fargo Bank's acquisition of Wachovia Bank) resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions, which have grown rapidly in recent years. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. Company Factors Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant and increasing portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, and could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a continued or further downturn in the residential real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. Although we do not engage in subprime or negative amortization lending, effects of recent subprime market challenges, combined with the ongoing deterioration in the U.S. and California real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and a lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolios in various ways, including by 21 Table of Contents decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors, including the home building industry, the commercial real estate industry, the communications/media industry, the retail industry, the energy industry and the technology industry. The home building industry in California has been especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets, which has lead us to take additional provisions against credit losses in this portfolio as to which we expect a higher level of charge offs during 2009. Continued volatility in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business The State of California currently faces economic and fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and fee income are generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector, especially the subprime housing markets, and the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties. Under the budget plan approved by the California Legislature and signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on February 20, 2009, the State of California will reduce services, increase sales and income taxes and other fees and take other expense reduction measures. In addition, California will fund a portion of the deficit through additional borrowings, which may include Revenue Anticipation Warrants, a relatively high-cost form of financing. Further, the budget requires California voter approval of ballot measures during a special election to be held on May 19, 2009. The measures would set a cap on state spending and institute a "rainy day" fund for periods of fiscal difficulty for the State's budget, authorize the State to sell bonds based on future lottery revenue, shift money from certain social programs, guarantee additional funds for schools and freeze lawmakers' pay when the State runs a deficit. Rejection of any of the revenue-related ballot measures would likely result in budget deficits which would need to be addressed later in 2009. The financial and economic consequences of this situation cannot be predicted with any certainty at this time. If the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties continue or economic conditions in California decline further, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact from current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers' ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowance. Continued volatility in fuel and energy costs could 22 Table of Contents also adversely impact some borrowers' ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowance because of unexpected events. Any increase in the allowance would result in a charge to earnings. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ As of November 4, 2008, BTMU, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MUFG, owned all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BTMU can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to BTMU or MUFG. A majority of our directors are independent of BTMU and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including BTMU. However, because of BTMU's control over the election of our directors, it could at any time change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us We may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non-financial companies that complement our business. We may not be successful in completing any acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and business lines and may sell or restructure a business or business line. Any acquisitions or restructurings may result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and/or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any divestures may also result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the assimilation or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition, divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and unexpected contingent liabilities arising from any business we might acquire. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divesture or restructuring we might make. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations We fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, BTMU and MUFG's credit ratings may affect our credit ratings. BTMU and MUFG are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against BTMU or MUFG. For additional information, see "MD&A—Regulatory Matters" in this Form 10-K Report. 23 Table of Contents Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of BTMU and MUFG regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of BTMU's risk management processes, BTMU manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of BTMU. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as BTMU. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including BTMU's aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors' and officers' ownership interests in MUFG's common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and BTMU could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and BTMU compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. Significant legal proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, 24 Table of Contents including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results The State of California requires us to file our franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes MUFG and either all worldwide affiliates or only U.S. affiliates. Prior to 2008, we have elected to file our California franchise tax returns on a worldwide unitary basis. We intend to file our 2008 California tax return under a water's-edge election. Changes in MUFG's taxable profits will impact our effective tax rate. MUFG's taxable profits are impacted most significantly by changes in the worldwide economy and decisions that they may make about the timing of the recognition of credit losses or other matters. When MUFG's taxable profits rise, our effective tax rate in California will rise, and when MUFG's taxable profits decrease, our effective tax rate will decrease. We review MUFG's financial information on a quarterly basis in order to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to the difference between our and MUFG's fiscal year-ends. If we understate our tax obligations we could be subject to penalties. Recent amendments to California tax law now impose an automatic 20 percent penalty for an understatement of tax in excess of $1 million for any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2003 for which the statute of limitations on assessment has not expired. In addition, the California effective tax rate can change during the calendar year or between calendar years as additional information becomes available. Our effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation, by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and with respect to our California state tax liability, by adjustments that may be necessary from time to time to recognize differences in estimated California state tax expense based on MUFG's estimated income and its actual results. We are subject to operational risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in "MD&A—Business Segments." Operational risk includes reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption "The effects of changes in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us." We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Failures in our internal control or operational systems could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as computer hacking or viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, negative public opinion could also result from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank, or BTMU or MUFG. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale or other borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to our company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework's underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud On November 4, 2008, we became a privately held company pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 18, 2008, by and among UnionBanCal, BTMU and Blue Jackets, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of BTMU. All of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are now owned by MUFG through its wholly-owned subsidiary BTMU. As such, we are no longer required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; however, we have elected to continue to file such periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with the reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the 26 Table of Contents controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 