Item 1A. Risk Factors Industry Factors Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business. Significant increases in market interest rates could also affect our cost of funds by requiring us to increase the rates we pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities and by providing an incentive for depositors to more rapidly move funds into higher yielding deposits and investments. Also, such increases in market rates could have a depressing effect on real estate sales and refinancing transactions which, in turn, could result in a decrease in the deposits from our title and escrow businesses. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact our margin spread, that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. The impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. The continuing war on terrorism could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and could adversely affect business and economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally, generally and in our principal markets. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon and Washington, as well as nationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources that are well in excess of ours. Such large financial 11 institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Adverse effects of, or changes in, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will likely continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s controlling ownership of us, laws, regulations and policies adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board , which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Regulatory Matters” in our Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report for discussion of other laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations that may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete 12 their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. Company Factors Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and fee income are generated in California, and a substantial majority of our residential real estate loans are in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the pace and scope of the recovery in the technology sector, and the California state government’s continuing budgetary and fiscal challenges. If economic conditions in California decline, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. The California state government continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State’s economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant and increasing portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Accordingly, a downturn in the real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors, including the commercial real estate industry, the communications/media industry, the retail industry, the power industry and the technology industry. Recent increases in fuel prices and energy costs have adversely affected businesses in several of these industries. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge-offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. We are not able to offer all of the financial services and products of a financial holding company Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can now combine as a “financial holding company.” Financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Many of our competitors have elected to become financial holding companies. Recently, a number of foreign banks have attained financial holding company status in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. Under current regulatory interpretations, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. would be required to attain financial holding company status in order for us to be able to become a financial holding company. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. is not presently a financial holding company. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ; our interests and those of our minority stockholders may not be the same as those of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., owns a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with 13 respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for us or any other change in control could also have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. A majority of our directors are independent of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. However, because of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s control over the election of our directors, we could designate ourselves as a “controlled company” under the New York Stock Exchange rules and could change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. Possible future sales of our shares by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect the market for our stock The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ may sell shares of our common stock in compliance with the federal securities laws. By virtue of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s current control of us, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could sell large amounts of shares of our common stock by causing us to file a registration statement that would allow it to sell shares more easily. In addition, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could sell shares of our common stock without registration under certain circumstances, such as in a “private placement.” Although we can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of our common stock, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ sells or transfers shares of our common stock as a block, another person or entity could become our controlling stockholder. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.’s financial condition could adversely affect our operations We fund our operations independently of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. However, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.’s credit ratings may affect our credit ratings. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. are also subject to regulatory oversight and review by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns related to the Japanese financial system, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., and other developments concerning The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ or Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., which may result in capital constraints as well as additional Japanese and U.S. regulatory constraints. Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s view of possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives may differ from ours. This may delay or hinder us from pursuing such initiatives. Also, as part of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s normal risk management processes, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal Corporation. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi 14 UFJ. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors’ and officers’ ownership interests in Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both of us compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and nonbank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Our ability to make acquisitions is subject to regulatory constraints and risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us Our ability to obtain regulatory approval of acquisitions is subject to constraints related to the Bank Secrecy Act and the CRA, as described above in “Business—Supervision and Regulation” and below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters.” Subject to our ability to address successfully these regulatory concerns, we may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non-financial companies that complement our business. We may not be successful in completing any such acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and business lines and may sell a business or business line. Any acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings may result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and/or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the assimilation or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition, divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and unexpected contingent liabilities arising from any business we might acquire. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and 15 services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory or enforcement actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results The State of California requires us to file our franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and either all worldwide affiliates or only U.S. affiliates. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by increases or decreases in Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s taxable profits, which in turn are affected by changes in the worldwide economy, especially in Japan, and decisions that they may make about the timing of the recognition of credit losses or other matters. Our effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation, or by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 