RISK FACTORS An investment in the securities of Elbit Vision Systems Ltd., or EVS, is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Therefore, you should not invest in our securities unless you are able to bear a loss of your entire investment. You should carefully consider the following factors as well as the other information contained herein before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time herein may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The information in this annual report is complete and accurate as of this date, but the information may change after the date of this annual report. The market prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile. The market prices of our ordinary shares are subject to fluctuations. The following factors may significantly impact on our ability to achieve expected operating results and growth plan goals and/or affect the market price of our ordinary shares: 7 Risks related to our business: — history of losses; — dependence on worldwide industries; — necessity of expansion into new markets; pursuit of business to acquire; — reliance on a limited number of key customers; — reliance on a limited number of key subcontractors and suppliers; — lengthy sales cycle; — competitiveness of automated visual inspection market; — fluctuations in the market; — long payment cycle; — market acceptance of products; — flaws in our manufacturing; — reliance on international sales; changes in domestic and foreign regulation; — uncertainty of global economic conditions — rapid technological change; — additions or departures of key personnel; — difficulty of penetrating new markets; — difficulty in protecting intellectual property; — involvement in litigation. Risks related to our ordinary shares: — need for additional funding; — prohibitively large number of ordinary shares; — dilution of ordinary shares; — downward pressure on share price; — restricted ability to acquire with ordinary shares; — fluctuations in share price resulting from limited trading volume; — "penny stock" sale risks; — difficulty of trading on the OTC bulletin board; — volatility in the stock market; — further decline in share price General Risks: — new regulations for corporate governance; — conditions in Israel; — differentials in the rate of currency exchange and inflation; — Israeli government grants, programs and tax benefits; and — enforceability of foreign judgments by Israeli courts. These risk factors are discussed in further detail below: Risks Related to our Business We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. Except for 2005, in which we generated net income of $0.611 million, we have not generated net income on an annual basis since 1997. We incurred net losses of $0.98 million, $5.9 million, $6.1 million $1.3 million and $7.5 million in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. 8 We believe that if we are unable to restructure our loans from Bank Leumi Le Israel and Bank Hapoalim, our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and available credit lines, will be insufficient to meet our cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for twelve months from July 2009. In order to continue as a going concern, we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities and reorganize our credit facilities, however there is no certainty that we will be successful in this, or complete it in a timely fashion. For more information on our bank loans, see Item 4 – Information on the Company –“Recent Developments – Loans”. ScanMaster is heavily dependent upon certain worldwide industries. The majority of our revenues are generated by our wholly owned subsidiary, ScanMaster Systems (IRT) Ltd. and IRT ScanMaster Systems Inc., or ScanMaster. A significant portion of ScanMaster’s revenues are generated by its sales of non-destructive inspection systems to the aeronautics industry, providing inspection solutions for aircraft engine forgings, and aerospace structural elements, manufactured from metal and composite materials. As such, we are substantially dependent upon the strength of these worldwide industries, and in particular upon the need by manufacturers to make continuing capital investments in systems and products, such as those marketed and sold by us, for use in their production and manufacturing processes. This need is a reflection, in turn, of the worldwide level of demand for the final products produced by the manufacturers to which we provide our inspection products. Demand for such products is normally a function of the prevailing global or regional economic environment and has been negatively affected by the current global economic downturn which may continue to materially adversely affect the demand for our products. We intend to continue pursuing businesses to acquire thus expanding our business into new markets. In the past, the majority of our revenues were generated from sales to the textile industry, which proved to be insufficient to generate significant net profits. As demonstrated by our penetration into the ultrasonic industrial inspection industries, our business strategy includes selective expansion into other automated inspection applications through the acquisition of additional businesses and technologies. Our future success and growth depends upon our successful penetration of these new markets. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to further expand our product line, customer base and technical talent through other acquisitions in the automated inspection industry. Acquisitions inherently involve numerous risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters, the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition, failure to commercialize purchased technologies, and the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from technological obsolescence or lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets. The inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. More specifically, should we fail to develop products which provide the necessary standards of inspection, then given the capital investments that we have made in order to penetrate these new markets, such failure could adversely affect our longer-term plans for expanding our business and may even cause the cessation of our business. For further information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company – History and Development of the Company” and Item 10, “Additional Information – Material Contracts”. 9 We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Although the composition of our customers changes from year to year, we expect to continue to receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In each of 2006, 2007, 2008 none of our customers in any area of business accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. We expect that sales of our products to relatively few customers could continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these key customers or that such customers will not cancel purchase orders, reschedule, or decrease their level of purchases. Loss or cancellation of business to these customers could seriously harm our financial results and business. We depend on a limited group of subcontractors and suppliers. Certain components and subassemblies included in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers and subcontractors. Our reliance on a single or a limited group of suppliers could result in an inability to obtain adequate supplies of certain components, a reduction in control over pricing and the timely delivery of components, as well as potentially having an adverse affect on the results of our operations and our relations with our customers. There can be no assurance that supplies will be available to us on an acceptable basis. Inability to obtain adequate supplies of components or to manufacture such components internally could have an adverse effect on us. Additionally, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components or subassemblies could negatively affect the results of our operations. The sales cycle for our products is lengthy and there is no guaranty of resulting sales. The marketing and sales cycle for our systems in all of the industries in which our various products are sold, especially in recently penetrated markets and in new applications, is lengthy, and can last as long as three years. Even in existing markets, due to the $10,000 to $1,500,000 price range for our systems and possibly significant ancillary costs required for a customer to install the system, the purchase of a system can constitute a substantial capital investment for a customer (which may need more than one machine for its particular proposed application), requiring lengthy consideration and evaluation. In particular, the product must provide a potential customer with a high degree of assurance that it will meet the customer’s needs, successfully interface with the customer’s own manufacturing, production or processing system, and have minimal warranty, safety and service problems. Accordingly, the time lag from initiation of marketing efforts to final sales can be lengthy and expensive, and there is no guaranty that the expenditure of significant time and resources will result in sales. 10 Competition in the automated inspection industry is intense. Several companies working with the textile industry have developed products with similar visual inspection or quality monitoring capabilities, such as BarcoVision and Cognex. In addition, a number of companies have developed products with non-destructive inspection capabilities, such as Krautkramer, Matec SDI, RD Tech, Sonix, Aims and Panametrics. It is possible that systems developed by these or other future competitors will prove more effective than our systems and that potential customers will prefer them. The competition for the development and sale of advanced automated inspection systems and non-destructive inspection systems in other industries and for other applications is also intense. To the extent that providers of automated inspection systems may choose to focus on or develop advanced automated inspection technology for the industries for which we attempt to develop products, we could face significant competition in the future. If we are unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the industries in which we operate or are unable to convince potential customers of the superiority of our products in markets in which we seek to compete, our business may be seriously harmed. There can be no assurance that our potential competitors will not develop products that render our products less competitive. Our potential competitors operating in other industries may be more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than we have. Fluctuations in the market may create periodic rises in expenses or falls in demand that would be difficult to offset. Historically, our highest level of net sales has been in the fourth quarter of each year. Nevertheless, we have experienced and may in the future experience significant fluctuations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include the timing of significant orders and shipments, product mix, delays in shipment, installation and/or acceptance of systems, capital spending patterns of customers, customer manufacturing cycles, trade shows, anticipated new product introductions by us or by others, competition and pricing, new product introductions by us or our competitors, the timing of research and development expenditures, expansion of marketing and support operations, changes in material costs, production or quality problems, currency fluctuations, disruptions in sources of supply, regulatory changes and general economic conditions. Moreover, due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our costs, including personnel and facilities costs, we would not be able to reduce costs in any quarter to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in net sales, and such a shortfall would have a proportionately greater impact on our results of operations for that quarter. For example, a significant portion of our quarterly net sales depends upon sales of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. Thus, changes in the number of systems shipped in any given quarter can produce substantial fluctuations in net sales, gross profits and net income from quarter to quarter. These or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 11 The long payment cycle in our industry may have a negative effect on our cash flow. As is the case with many suppliers of equipment to the automotive, transportation, metal and textile industries, we often receive a deposit upon receipt of an order, a partial payment upon delivery or installation and final payment pursuant to negotiated payment terms or final payment after a trial and/or acceptance period for systems sold subject to a trial period. The time required for installation and trial varies from customer to customer and may be delayed by a variety of factors, including the customer’s production cycle, integration of systems into the customer’s manufacturing process, required modifications to the customer’s production line and the availability of qualified technicians to monitor system operations. For systems sold without an evaluation period, revenue is recognized immediately upon installation of the system. For systems sold subject to a trial period, revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance. The length of the customer’s trial and acceptance period generally varies from one to twelve months after installation. If we are unable to consistently generate sustained positive cash flow from operations, we must rely on debt or equity financing. For further information, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Trend Information”. We cannot guarantee market acceptance of our products. Our success depends on the acceptance of our products by existing and new customers. Market acceptance of our automated visual and ultrasonic inspection and quality monitoring systems will depend, in large part, on the pricing of the products and our ability to demonstrate the cost and quality advantages of our systems over human visual inspection and quality monitoring. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market our products successfully or that any of our current or future products will be accepted in the marketplace. We may have flaws in the design or manufacture of our products. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, including those products of the businesses we have recently acquired, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that these actions will be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs, or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our international sales could be adversely affected by changes in domestic and foreign regulations. Our systems have been sold primarily in the United States, Europe and the Far East. We are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, staffing and managing foreign operations, transportation delays and seasonal reduction of business activities. Additionally, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. General economic conditions may adversely affect the Company's results. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions, including the recent disruption in financial and credit markets, pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our and our customers’ products, as well as our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the current situation continues or worsens, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services, or supplier or customer disruptions, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 We may not be successful in keeping pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize our industries. The technology incorporated in automated inspection and quality monitoring systems is characterized by rapid changes. Moreover, the emergence of new technologies can rapidly render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to continue to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products that can gain market acceptance on a timely basis will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. In addition, we intend to diversify our business by developing new products based on our own technology. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage transitions from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our success depends in a large part on certain of our personnel, including our sales representatives, executive, research and development personnel and our technical staff, the loss of the services of whom would have a material adverse effect on us. There is considerable competition for the services of such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able either to retain our current personnel or acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. We may not be able to protect our intellectual proprietary rights. We rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, our employees who have access to confidential information are required to sign confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. Certain elements of our technology are licensed from Dr. Ilan Tamches. We have certain exclusive rights to this technology with respect to the textile industry and certain non-exclusive rights with respect to other industries. Since the third quarter of 2006 we have not used this technology. Neither we, nor, to our knowledge, Dr. Tamches, have any patents or patent applications pending with respect to this technology. We do have a registered patent in France and patent applications pending in Israel with respect to certain technology incorporated in the video cameras used by our systems. We believe that such measures provide only limited protection of our proprietary information, and there is no assurance that our confidentiality and non-competition agreements will be enforceable and that our proprietary technology will remain a secret, or that others will not develop similar technology and use this technology to compete with us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, former employees and other unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. For more information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Intellectual Property Rights for Textile Industry”. 13 We may become involved in litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, significant and protracted litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, to determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement, regardless of whether the claims are valid. For more information, see Item 8, “Financial Information – Litigation”. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We may require additional financing. Mivtach Shamir, our controlling shareholder has tentatively agreed to invest an aggregate amount of $1.8 million as a part of a private placement or rights offering, of which NIS 1,982,000 (approximately $492,000) Mivtach Shamir provided to us by way of a convertible loan during 2009. The terms of the loan conversion and repayment of the remaining investment amount are currently being negotiated by Mivtach Shamir and our management. The remaining investment amount and the conversion of the loan is contingent upon Bank Leumi Le Israel and Bank Hapoalim agreeing to restructure our debt to them such that the repayment of the principal on the loans will be frozen until December 31, 2011. If we do not receive such approval from the banks and we fail to receive the balance of the $1.8 million from Mivtach Shamir, we believe that our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and available credit lines, will be insufficient to meet our cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for twelve months from July 2009. On June 21, 2007, we executed an agreement intended to amend our agreement with Mivtach Shamir, dated February 21, 2006, or the Mivtach Agreement. The new agreement, or the Amendment Agreement, which was approved by our shareholders in a meeting of our shareholders held on July 31, 2007, was executed between us and M.S.N.D. Real Estate Holdings Ltd., or M.S.N.D, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mivtach Shamir, to which Mivtach Shamir had assigned their right to receive shares from us under the Mivtach Agreement. Pursuant to the Amendment Agreement, the terms of the Mivtach Agreement and the loan therein, were amended, such that in consideration for M.S.N.D.‘s undertaking to convert $3,000,000 by no later than August 1, 2007, (a) M.S.N.D was issued 9,523,810 of our ordinary shares; and (b) M.S.N.D received a 4-year warrant to purchase 2,380,952 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $0.45 per share. M.S.N.D also agreed to waive its rights to exercise warrants into at least 3,000,000 ordinary shares issuable under the Mivtach Agreement, agreeing to exercise warrants into no more than 1,000,000 ordinary shares issuable under the Mivtach Agreement, which warrants expired subsequently on February 21, 2008. Following the Amendment Agreement M.S.N.D has become a holder of more than 25% of our issued and outstanding share capital. We also entered into a registration rights agreement with M.S.N.D., pursuant to which we filed a Registration Statement on Form F-1 on July 31, 2007, covering all the ordinary shares and ordinary shares underlying the warrants issuable to M.S.N.D pursuant to the Amendment. In addition, on June 21, 2007, following the approval of our audit committee and board of directors, we executed with Elbit Ltd., or Elbit, an agreement, or the Elbit Agreement. This agreement was approved by our shareholders in a meeting of our shareholders held on July 31, 2007. Pursuant to the Elbit Agreement, Elbit (i) converted an existing loan to us in the amount of $470,000 (including accrued interest up until March 31, 2007) into 1,492,063 of our ordinary shares, at a price of $0.315 per share; and (ii) invested in us $250,000 in consideration for 793,651 of our ordinary shares at a price of $0.315 per share and received a 4-year warrant to purchase 396,825 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $0.45 per share. Within the framework of the Elbit Agreement, we have entered into a registration rights agreement, pursuant to which we filed a Registration Statement on Form F-1 on July 31, 2007, covering all of the ordinary shares and ordinary shares underlying the warrants issued pursuant to the Elbit Agreement. 14 Additionally, in April 2007 we executed a share purchase agreement, or the April Investment, which was consummated with a series of Israeli institutional investors over the period of April to July 2007, for the purchase of 9,465,544 of our ordinary shares for $0.315 per share, or an aggregate price of $2,981,646. Pursuant to the transaction, the investors were also issued warrants to purchase 4,732,772 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price per share of $0.45, exercisable for a period of 4 years, 163,178 of which were exercised during 2008. On July 31, 2007, we filed a Registration Statement on Form F-1, covering all of the ordinary shares and ordinary shares underlying the warrants issuable to the institutional investors pursuant to the April Investment. Additionally, in August 2005 and February 2006, we and ScanMaster received a credit line for the aggregate amount of $2,000,000 from Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd., or Mizrahi, which terminated on June 30, 2007. The credit line was secured by a first ranking floating charge on all our assets and all the assets of ScanMaster. We also granted Mizrahi a warrant to purchase up to 571,429 of our ordinary shares, at an exercise price of $0.77 per share, which was later reduced by our board to $0.50 per share. This warrant is exercisable until September 8, 2009. We and ScanMaster also received a credit line from Bank Leumi for the aggregate amount of $2,500,000. The credit line is secured by a first ranking floating charge on all our assets and all the assets of ScanMaster. For more information, see Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions.” Additionally, at the end of March 2009, following the approval of our audit committee and board of directors, we entered into loan agreements with each of Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi Le Israel for the aggregate sum of $600,000 ($300,000 per bank). For more information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company – Recent Developments.” We believe that if we are unable to restructure our loans from Bank Leumi Le Israel and Bank Hapoalim, we will not receive the balance of the proposed investment of $1.8 million from Mivtach Shamir, and our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and available credit lines, will be insufficient to meet our cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for twelve months from July 2009. In order to continue as a going concern, we may sell additional equity or debt securities and seek to obtain additional financing. We may not, however, be able to obtain additional financing on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. In addition, given the existing potential for significant dilution in light of the large number of outstanding convertible securities as well as the large number of our ordinary shares we have recently registered or have an obligation to register, our ability to complete additional debt or equity financing may be very limited. 15 The large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares As of May 31, 2009, 50,988,701 of our shares were outstanding. In addition, in 2005, we issued David Gal, our former CEO and chairman of the board, options to purchase up to 600,000 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $0.50 per share. One third of the options vested on December 31, 2006, since which time 2.8% of the total shares subject to the option are vesting on a monthly basis. The vesting of the options will be subject to Mr. Gal serving as the chairman of our board of directors on the relevant vesting date, and he shall be entitled to exercise the options up to 5 years after the options have vested. In addition, 4,540,352 of our ordinary shares are currently issuable to our present and former employees, directors and consultants upon the exercise of options granted pursuant to our 1996, 2000, 2003 and 2006 employee option plans, with varying exercise prices, ranging between $0.15 per share and $1.68 per ordinary share. Additionally, in the event that Mivtach Shamir completes its aggregate investment of $1.8 million and converts its convertible loan with us, additional ordinary shares will be issued to Mivtach Shamir. In addition, pursuant to the Amendment Agreement, 2,380,952 of our ordinary shares are issuable to M.S.N.D. upon the exercise of a warrant, with an exercise price of $0.45 per share, exercisable for a period of 4 years. There is an outstanding Registration Statement on Form F-1 covering all of these ordinary shares and the ordinary shares underlying the warrants. During September of 2008, M.S.N.D transferred the right to exercise 1,380,000 ordinary shares covered by this warrant to David Gal. In addition, in consideration for the acquisition of ScanMaster we paid ScanMaster’s former shareholders $3 million in cash and agreed to issue them 7,414,213 of our ordinary shares, of which 4,044,834 are currently held in escrow and are eligible for release. 2,939,192 of these shares were sold to M.S.N.D., as part of an agreement between some of ScanMaster’s former shareholders and Mivtach Shamir. In addition, 800,000 ordinary shares have been issued to Ma’aragim Enterprises Ltd, or Ma’aragim, in connection with the acquisition of Panoptes, and we granted Mizrahi a warrant to purchase up to 571,429 of our ordinary shares, at an exercise price of $0.77 per share, which our board consented to reduce to $0.5 per share, in November 2006. Assuming the full exercise of the warrant, M.S.N.D. will hold approximately 25.3% of our share capital. Furthermore, under the Elbit Agreement, we also granted warrants to purchase 396,825 of our ordinary shares. There is an outstanding Registration Statement on Form F-1, covering all of these ordinary shares and ordinary shares underlying the warrants issued or issuable to Elbit. Additionally, under the April Investment 4,732,772 of our ordinary shares are issuable to Israeli Investors upon the exercise of warrants, and are covered by an outstanding Registration Statement on Form F-1. 16 Consequently, the following securities are registered for re-sale: (a) 5,099,911 ordinary shares issued under certain private placement investments entered into in 2003 and 2004; (b) 7,050,869 ordinary shares issuable to employees under 1996, 2000, 2003 and 2006 employee option plans; (c) 4,475,021 ordinary shares for ScanMaster’s former shareholders; (d) 9,523,810 ordinary shares issued upon the conversion of a convertible loan, as amended by Amendment Agreement, and 2,380,952 shares to be issued to M.S.N.D. upon exercise of the warrant pursuant to the Amendment Agreement; (e) 2,647,643 ordinary shares held by Elbit; (f) 2,285,714 ordinary shares issued under the Elbit Agreement, and 396,825 shares to be issued to Elbit upon exercise of its warrant; (g) 9,465,544 ordinary shares issued under the April Investment as well as 4,732,772 shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants issued to Israeli institutional investors; (h) 571,429 ordinary shares to be issued to Mizrahi upon exercise of its warrant; and (i) 800,000 ordinary shares for Ma’aragim. All of these securities are registered for resale, and are not subject to any contractual restrictions on resale. Future resale of any of these shares, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause an increase or an anticipated increase of the number of our shares in the market and therefore could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and materially impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities and could result in increased volatility in the price of our shares. Our ordinary shares may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Trading in our ordinary shares has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods, or possibly at all. Thinly traded ordinary shares can be more volatile than ordinary shares traded in an active public market. The average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares in April 2009 was 25,525 shares. The high and low bid price of our ordinary shares for the last two years has been $0.07 and $0.54, respectively. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. 17 Our Ordinary Shares are deemed to be “Penny Stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our ordinary shares are deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Penny stocks are: — With a price of less than $5.00 per share; — That are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; — Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system; or — In issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our ordinary shares by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our share price to decline. Our ordinary shares are currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and may be difficult to buy and sell. On November 19, 2003, our ordinary shares were delisted from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board as a result of our failure to comply with the $2.5 million minimum shareholder equity requirement. Consequently, selling and buying our securities has become more difficult because of delays in the timing of transactions and in obtaining accurate quotations. Furthermore, broker-dealers are subject to an SEC rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale. These factors may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our ordinary shares and of shareholders to sell our ordinary shares in the secondary market and in turn could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise be obtained. For more information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company – History and Development of the Company” and Item 9, “The Offer and Listing – Market and Share Price History”. Our results are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Due to the current downturn in the world economy which began in 2008, the securities’ markets in general have experienced increased volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many hi-tech companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities has often been unrelated to their operating performance, they, and particularly those in the fields of communications, software and internet, have been experiencing and may continue to experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities market in general, and in relation to our shares in particular, may affect our ability to raise additional financing in the future. 18 We may experience a further decline in our share price Our share price has declined significantly over the last year and it continues to be affected by the current uncertainty in global economic conditions We cannot assure you that our share price will recover in the coming fiscal year. General Risks Corporate governance scandals and new legislation could increase the cost of our operations. As a result of corporate governance scandals and the legislative and litigation environment resulting from those scandals, the costs of being a public company in general have increased. Legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have had the effect of increasing the burdens and potential liabilities of being a public reporting company. This and other proposed legislation may increase the fees of our professional advisors and our insurance premiums. Conditions in Israel may affect our operations. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our corporate offices, research and development operations and production facilities are located in, Israel. Although almost all of our current sales are made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. From October 2000 until recently, there was an increase in violence between Israel and the Palestinians, primarily but not exclusively in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The election of representatives of the Hamas militant group in January 2006 to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council, their taking over the Gaza Strip, as well as the war with the Islamic militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon in July and August 2006 have created additional regional unrest and uncertainty. The hostilities with Hamas in the Gaza Strip further significantly escalated in December of 2008 and January of 2009. Ongoing and revived hostilities with the Palestinians or Arab countries might require more widespread military reserve service by some of our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, several Arab and Muslim countries still restrict business with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. The political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, many of our facilities are located in Israel. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot give any assurance that security and political conditions will not have such an effect in the future. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. 19 Furthermore, all non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 42 are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. There have been significant call-ups of military reservists in the past, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact such conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. Our operations could be disrupted by the extended absence of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The Israeli rate of inflation may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. Dollar. Most of our sales are made in U.S. Dollars. We occasionally agree to make sales in other currencies, usually the Euro. This exposes us to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates vis-à-vis the U.S. Dollar. We have recently commenced utilizing foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate these risks. Under these contracts, increases or decreases in our foreign currency transactions are partially offset by gains and loses on the forward contracts, so as to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. However, our Dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the Dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from such fluctuations. For more information, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Operating Results – Impact of Inflation and Devaluation on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets” and Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign Currency Exchange and Interest Rate Risk”. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, which may change or be withdrawn. We benefit from certain Israeli government grants, programs and tax benefits. To be eligible for these grants, programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making certain specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, we could be required to refund payments under these programs or pay certain taxes. There can be no assurance that such programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or otherwise. The termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 20 Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against any such persons or us. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in New Israeli Shekels, which can then be converted into foreign currency at the rate of exchange of such foreign currency on the date of payment. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in New Israeli Shekels (without any linkage to a foreign currency) ordinarily will be linked to the Israeli consumer price index plus interest at the annual statutory rate prevailing at such time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 