Item 1A. Risk Factors Inflation may affect the Company’s ability to sell merchandise at the 99¢ price point The Company’s ability to provide quality merchandise for profitable resale within the 99¢ price point is subject to certain economic factors, which are beyond the Company’s control. Inflation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations, especially given the constraints on the Company’s ability to pass on incremental costs due to price increases or other factors. A sustained trend of significantly increased inflationary pressure could require the Company to abandon its 99¢ price point, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. However, the Company can pass price increases on to customers to a degree, such as by selling smaller units for the same price and by selling fewer units for $0.99 or at higher price points below $0.99 ending in a 9 in the case of items sold at two or more for $0.99. In certain circumstances, the Company has dropped and may continue to drop some items from its offerings due to vendor wholesale price increases or availability, which may adversely affect sales. See also “The Company is vulnerable to uncertain economic factors, changes in the minimum wage, and increased workers’ compensation and healthcare costs” for a discussion of additional risks attendant to inflationary conditions. The Company is dependent primarily on new store openings for future growth The Company’s ability to generate growth in sales and operating income depends in part on its ability to successfully open and operate new stores outside of its core market of Southern California and to manage future growth profitably. The Company’s strategy depends on many factors, including its ability to identify suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiate leases or purchases with acceptable terms, refurbish stores, successfully compete against local competition and the increasing presence of large and successful companies entering or expanding into the markets that the Company operates in, upgrade its financial and management information systems and controls, gain brand recognition and acceptance in new markets, and manage operating expenses and product costs. In addition, the Company must be able to hire, train, motivate, and retain competent managers and store personnel at increasing distances from the Company’s headquarters. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control or are difficult to manage. As a result, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to achieve its goals with respect to growth. Any failure by the Company to achieve these goals on a timely basis, differentiate itself and obtain acceptance in markets in which it currently has limited or no presence, attract and retain management and other qualified personnel, appropriately upgrade its financial and management information systems and controls, and manage operating expenses could adversely affect its future operating results and its ability to execute the Company’s business strategy. A variety of factors, including store location, store size, local demographics, rental terms, competition, the level of store sales, availability of locally sourced as well as intra-Company distribution of merchandise, locally prevailing wages and labor pools, distance and time from existing distribution centers, local regulations, and the level of initial advertising, influence if and when a store becomes profitable. Assuming that planned expansion occurs as anticipated, the store base will include a portion of stores with relatively short operating histories. New stores may not achieve the sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins historically achieved at existing stores. If new stores on average fail to achieve these results, planned expansion could produce a further decrease in overall sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins. Increases in the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with the opening of new stores could also contribute to a decrease in operating margins. New stores opened in existing and in new markets have in the past and may in the future be less profitable than existing stores in the Company’s core Southern California market and/or may reduce retail sales of existing stores, negatively affecting comparable store sales. As the Company expands beyond its base in the Southwestern United States, differences in the available labor pool and potential customers could adversely impact the Company. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s operations are concentrated in California; natural disaster and similar risks in its markets As of March 29, 2008, all but 79 of the Company’s 265 stores were located in California (with 46 stores in Texas, 22 stores in Arizona and 11 stores in Nevada). The Company expects that it will continue to open additional stores in California, as well as in its other current states. For the foreseeable future, the Company’s results of operations will depend significantly on trends in the California economy. If retail spending declines due to an economic slow-down or recession in California, the Company’s operations and profitability may be negatively impacted. California has also historically enacted minimum wages that exceed federal standards (and certain of its cities have enacted “living wage” laws that exceed State minimum wage laws) and California typically has other factors making compliance, litigation and workers’ compensation claims more prevalent and costly. Additional local regulation in certain California cities, such as newly enacted recycling laws and limitations on bags that may be used, can further pressure margins. In addition, the Company historically has been vulnerable to certain natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, tornados, hurricanes, and civil disturbances. At times, these events have disrupted the local economy. These events could also pose physical risks to the Company’s properties. Furthermore, although the Company maintains standard property and business interruption insurance, the Company does not maintain earthquake insurance on its facilities and business or insure other risks which are not normally insured such as acts of war. In addition, because of the closeout nature of many of the Company’s products, a loss of inventory due to such a disaster would likely take the Company longer to remediate than if the Company only relied upon re-orderable merchandise. The Company is evaluating strategic alternatives for its Texas market and could be impacted by a decrease in revenue and restructuring costs The Company will not expand substantially in Texas unless it confirms the viability of its business model in the Texas market. The Company has experienced substantially lower sales per store and sales per estimated saleable square foot in Texas stores in comparison to its non-Texas stores. While the annual average sales per Texas store has grown from approximately $2.2 million in calendar 2004 to approximately $2.6 million in fiscal 2008, there can be no guarantee that the Company will achieve an acceptable level of profitability in its Texas market. The Company is currently evaluating strategic alternatives for its Texas market. To date, the Company’s Texas performance has not been acceptable and if a sufficient profitable business model is not achieved, the Company could be impacted by a decrease in revenue and restructuring costs. The Company could experience disruptions in receiving and distribution The Company’s success depends upon whether receiving and shipments are organized and well managed. As the Company continues to grow, it may face increased or unexpected demands on warehouse operations, as well as unexpected demands on its transportation network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments from distribution centers that are increasingly further away will increase transportation costs and may create transportation scheduling strains. The very nature of the Company’s closeout business makes it uniquely susceptible to periodic and difficult to foresee warehouse/distribution center overcrowding caused by spikes in inventory resulting from opportunistic closeout purchases. Such demands could cause delays in delivery of merchandise to and from warehouses and/or to stores. The Company is also in the process of evaluating new warehouse distribution and merchandising systems and has experienced problems with the warehousing, distribution and merchandising systems being replaced. A fire, earthquake, or other disaster at the Company’s warehouses could also hurt the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly because much of the merchandise consists of closeouts and other irreplaceable products. The Company also faces the possibility of future labor unrest that could disrupt the Company’s receiving, processing, and shipment of merchandise. 12 Table of Contents The Company depends upon its relationships with suppliers and the availability of closeout and special-situation merchandise The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to locate and purchase quality closeout and special-situation merchandise at attractive prices. This results in a mix of name-brand and other merchandise within the 99¢ price point. The Company cannot be certain that such merchandise will continue to be available in the future at prices consistent with the Company business plan and/or historical costs. Further, the Company may not be able to find and purchase merchandise in necessary quantities, particularly as it grows and therefore requires a greater availability of such merchandise at competitive prices. Additionally, suppliers sometimes restrict the advertising, promotion and method of distribution of their merchandise. These restrictions in turn may make it more difficult for the Company to quickly sell these items from inventory. Although the Company believes its relationships with suppliers are good, the Company typically does not have long-term agreements or pricing commitments with any suppliers. As a result, the Company must continuously seek out buying opportunities from existing suppliers and from new sources. There is increasing competition for these opportunities with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores, and various other companies and individuals as the extreme value retail segment continues to expand outside and within existing retail channels. There is also a growth in consolidation among vendors and suppliers of merchandise targeted by the Company. A disruption in the availability of merchandise at attractive prices could impair the Company’s business. The Company purchases in large volumes and its inventory is highly concentrated To obtain inventory at attractive prices, the Company takes advantage of large volume purchases, closeouts and other special situations. As a result, inventory levels are generally higher than other discount retailers and from time to time this can result in an over-capacity situation in the warehouses and place stress on the Company’s warehouse and distribution operations as well as the back rooms of its retail stores. This can also result in shrink due to spoilage if merchandise cannot be sold in anticipated timeframes. The Company’s short-term and long-term store and warehouse inventory approximated $140.3 million and $155.8 million at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, respectively. The Company periodically reviews the net realizable value of its inventory and makes adjustments to its carrying value when appropriate. The current carrying value of inventory reflects the Company’s belief that it will realize the net values recorded on the balance sheet. However, the Company may not do so, and if it does, this may result in overcrowding and supply chain difficulties. If the Company sells large portions of inventory at amounts less than their carrying value or if it writes down or otherwise disposes of a significant part of inventory, cost of sales, gross profit, operating income, and net income could decline significantly during the period in which such event or events occur. Margins could also be negatively affected should the grocery category sales become a larger percentage of total sales in the future, and by increases in shrinkage and spoilage from perishable products. The Company faces strong competition The Company competes in both the acquisition of inventory and sale of merchandise with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, single price point merchandisers, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores and other retailers. It also competes for retail real estate sites. In the future, new companies may also enter the extreme value retail industry. It is also becoming more common for superstores to sell products competitive with the Company’s own. Additionally, the Company currently faces increasing competition for the purchase of quality closeout and other special-situation merchandise, and some of these competitors are entering or may enter the Company’s traditional markets. In addition, as it expands, the Company will enter new markets where its own brand is weaker and established brands are stronger, and where its own brand value may have been diluted by other retailers with similar names appearances and/or business models. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources and buying power than the Company does, as well as nationwide name-recognition and organization. The Company’s capability to compete will depend on many factors including the ability to successfully purchase and resell merchandise at lower prices than competitors and the ability to differentiate itself from competitors that do not share the Company’s price and merchandise attributes, yet may appear similar to prospective customers. The Company also faces competition from other retailers with similar names and/or appearances. The Company cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors in both the acquisition of inventory and the sale of merchandise. 13 Table of Contents The Company is vulnerable to uncertain economic factors, changes in the minimum wage, and increased workers’ compensation and healthcare costs The Company’s future results of operations and ability to provide quality merchandise within the 99¢ price point could be hindered by certain economic factors beyond its control, including but not limited to: - inflation and increases in the rate of inflation, both in the United States as well as in other countries in which the products it sells are manufactured or from which parts and materials are sourced; - increases in prices from our merchandise, supply and service vendors; - increases in employee health and other benefit costs; - increases in minimum and prevailing wage levels, as well as “living wage” pressures; - increases in government regulatory compliance costs; - decreases in consumer confidence levels; - increases in transportation and fuel costs, which affect both the Company, as it ships over longer distances, and its customers and suppliers; - increases in unionization efforts, including campaigns at the store and warehouse levels; - increases in workers’ compensation costs and self-insured workers’ compensation liabilities due to increased claims costs, as well as frequent political and legislative pressure or judicial rulings easing or rolling back the recent tightening of certain California workers’ compensation provisions. The Company faces risks associated with international sales and purchases International sales historically have not been important to the Company’s overall net sales. However, some of the Company’s inventory is manufactured outside the United States and there are many risks associated with doing business internationally. International transactions may be subject to risks such as: - political instability; - lack of knowledge by foreign manufacturers of or compliance with applicable federal and state product, content, packaging and other laws, rules and regulations; - foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; - uncertainty in dealing with foreign vendors and countries where the rule of law is less established; - risk of loss due to overseas transportation; - import and customs review can delay delivery of product as could labor disruptions at ports; - changes in import and export regulations, including “trade wars” and retaliatory responses; - changes in tariff, import duties and freight rates; - testing and compliance; The United States and other countries have at times proposed various forms of protectionist trade legislation. Any resulting changes in current tariff structures or other trade policies could result in increases in the cost of and/or reduction in the availability of certain merchandise and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to purchase such merchandise. The Company has identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting The Company reported an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of March 29, 2008 because of a material weakness identified in management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls related to inventory accounting as of that date. This material weakness, if not remediated, could create an increased risk of misstatement of financial results, which, if material, may require future restatement thereof. A failure to implement improved internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or execution, could cause the Company future delays in its reporting obligations and could have a negative effect on the Company and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” for more information on the status of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 14 Table of Contents The Company could encounter risks related to transactions with affiliates The Company leases 13 of its stores and a parking lot for one of those stores from the Gold family and their affiliates, of which 11 stores are leased on a month to month basis. Under current policy, the Company only enters into real estate transactions with affiliates for the renewal or modification of existing leases and on occasions where it determines that such transactions are in the Company’s best interests. Moreover, the independent members of the Board of Directors must unanimously approve all real estate transactions between the Company and its affiliates. They must also determine that such transactions are no less favorable than a negotiated arm’s-length transaction with a third party. The Company cannot guarantee that it will reach agreements with the Gold family on renewal terms for the properties it currently leases from them. Also, even if terms were negotiated that were acceptable to the Company, it cannot be certain that such terms would meet the standard required for approval by the independent directors. If the Company fails to renew one or more of these leases, it would be forced to relocate or close the leased stores. Any relocations or closures could potentially result in significant closure expense and could adversely affect the Company’s net sales and operating results. The Company relies heavily on its executive management team The Company relies heavily on the continued service of its executive management team. With the exception of Robert Kautz, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Company has not entered into employment agreements with any of its executive officers. Also, the Company does not maintain key person life insurance on any of its officers. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and the Company may not successfully attract, assimilate or sufficiently retain the necessary number of qualified candidates. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate and may be affected by seasonal buying patterns Historically, the Company’s highest net sales and operating income have occurred during the quarter ended December 31, which includes the Christmas and Halloween selling seasons. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, the Company generated approximately 27.1% and 27.3%, respectively of its net sales during this quarter. If for any reason the Company’s net sales were to fall below norms during this quarter, it could have an adverse impact on profitability and impair the results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Transportation scheduling, warehouse capacity constraints, supply chain disruptions, adverse weather conditions, labor disruptions or other disruptions during the peak holiday season could also affect net sales and profitability for the fiscal year. In addition to seasonality, many other factors may cause the results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These factors, some beyond the Company’s control, include the following: - the number, size and location of new stores and timing of new store openings; - the distance of new stores from existing stores and distribution sources; - the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; - the integration of new stores into operations; - the general economic health of the extreme value retail industry; - changes in the mix of products sold; - increases in fuel, shipping merchandise and energy costs; - the ability to successfully manage inventory levels; - changes in personnel; - the expansion by competitors into geographic markets in which they have not historically had a strong presence; - fluctuations in the amount of consumer spending; and - the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the growth of the business and the Company’s ability to uniformly capture such costs. 15 Table of Contents The Company could be exposed to product liability or packaging violation claims The Company purchases many products on a closeout basis, some of which are manufactured or distributed by overseas entities, and some of which are purchased by the Company through brokers or other intermediaries as opposed to directly from their manufacturing or distribution sources. Certain of these purchases must be consummated on very short notice. The closeout nature of certain of these products may limit the Company’s opportunity to more fully investigate all aspects of these products. The Company attempts to procure product insurance from its vendors and to be listed as an additional insured for certain products and/or by certain product vendors, but cannot always successfully negotiate this term. This could result in future losses on product liability, labeling, environmental, or other claims. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency, Consumer Product Safety Commission, and California Air Resources Board are investigating the Company’s sale of products they assert to be in violation of the rules they enforce, which may result in future action by the agencies, such as the imposition of actions, fines, or penalties against the Company. The Company faces risks related to protection of customers’ credit card data In connection with credit card sales, the Company transmits confidential credit card information. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and the Company’s security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. Any security breach could expose the Company to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. The Company is subject to environmental regulations Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, current or previous owners or occupants of property may face liability associated with hazardous substances. These laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to fault. In the future, the Company may be required to incur substantial costs for preventive or remedial measures associated with hazardous materials. The Company has several storage tanks at its warehouse facilities, including: an aboveground and an underground diesel storage tank at the main Southern California warehouse; ammonia storage tanks at the Southern California cold storage facility and the Texas warehouse; aboveground diesel and propane storage tanks at the Texas warehouse; an aboveground propane storage tank at the main Southern California warehouse; and an aboveground propane tank located at the warehouse the Company owns in Eagan, Minnesota, which is currently being marketed for sale. Although the Company has not been notified of, and is not aware of, any material current environmental liability, claim or non-compliance, it could incur costs in the future related to owned properties, leased properties, storage tanks, or other business properties and/or activities. In the ordinary course of business, the Company handles or disposes of commonplace household products that are classified as hazardous materials under various environmental laws and regulations. The Company has adopted policies regarding the handling and disposal of these products, but the Company cannot be assured that its policies and training are comprehensive and/or are consistently followed, and the Company is still potentially subject to liability under, or violations of, these environmental laws and regulations in the future even if its policies are consistently followed. Anti-takeover effect; Concentration of ownership by existing officers and principal stockholders In addition to some governing provisions in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, the Company is also subject to certain California laws and regulations which could delay, discourage or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in control, even if such actions would benefit both the Company and its shareholders. Moreover, David Gold, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of his family (including Eric Schiffer, Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Gold, President and Chief Operating Officer and Howard Gold, Executive Vice President of Special Projects) and certain of their affiliates and the Company’s other directors and executive officers beneficially own as of March 29, 2008, an aggregate of 23,276,601, or 33.1%, of the Company’s outstanding common shares. As a result, they have the ability to influence the Company’s policies and matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors and other corporate action, and potentially to prevent a change in control. This could adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders and could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s common stock price could decrease and fluctuate widely Trading prices for the Company’s common stock could decrease and fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including: - the depth of the market for common stock; - changes in expectations of future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts; - variations in operating results; - conditions or trends in the industry or industries of any significant vendors or other stakeholders; - the conditions of the market generally or the extreme value or retail industries; - additions or departures of key personnel; - future sales of common stock by the Company, its officers and the principal shareholders; - government regulation affecting the business; - increased competition; - increases in minimum wages; - workers’ compensation costs and new laws and regulations; - the Company’s ability to control shrink; - consolidation of consumer product companies; - municipal regulation of “dollar” stores; - future determinations of compliance or noncompliance with Sarbanes Oxley and related requirements; and - other risk factors as disclosed herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 