RISK FACTORS An investment in the securities of Elbit Vision Systems Ltd., or EVS, is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Therefore, you should not invest in our securities unless you are able to bear a loss of your entire investment. You should carefully consider the following factors as well as the other information contained herein before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time herein may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The information in this annual report is complete and accurate as of this date, but the information may change after the date of this annual report. 6 The market prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile. The market prices of our ordinary shares are subject to fluctuations. The following factors may significantly impact on our ability to achieve expected operating results and growth plan goals and/or affect the market price of our ordinary shares: Risk factors related to our business: · history of losses; · necessity of expansion into new markets; pursuit of business to acquire; · reliance on a limited number of key customers; · reliance on a limited number of key subcontractors and suppliers; · lengthy sales cycle; · competitiveness of automated visual inspection market; · fluctuations in the market; · long payment cycle; · market acceptance of products; · flaws in our manufacturing; · reliance on international sales; changes in domestic and foreign regulation; · uncertainty of global economic conditions · rapid technological change; · additions or departures of key personnel; · difficulty of penetrating new markets; · difficulty in protecting intellectual property; · involvement in litigation. Risks related to our ordinary shares: · need for additional funding; · prohibitively large number of ordinary shares; · dilution of ordinary shares; · downward pressure on share price; · restricted ability to acquire with ordinary shares; · fluctuations in share price resulting from limited trading volume; · “penny stock” sale risks; · difficulty of trading on the OTC bulletin board; · volatility in the stock market. · further decline in share price General Risks: · conditions in Israel; · differentials in the rate of currency exchange and inflation; · Israeli government grants, programs and tax benefits; and · enforceability of foreign judgments by Israeli courts. These risk factors are discussed in further detail below: Risk Factors Related to our Business We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. Except for 2005 and 2010, in which we generated net income of $0.611 million and $2.6 million, we have not generated net income on an annual basis since 1997. We incurred net losses of $5.9 million, $6.1 million $1.3 million, $7.5 million and $7.7 million in 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 respectively. In June 2010, we restructured our bank loans from Bank Leumi Le Israel BM and Bank Hapoalim (the "Banks"). Although the terms of the restructure agreement were favorable to the company, there is no guarantee that we will be able to comply with the repayment terms and/or be profitable in the future. Our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and available credit lines, may be insufficient to meet our cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for twelve months from June 2011, and we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities and reorganize our credit facilities in order to continue as a going concern. There is no certainty that we will be successful in these efforts, or complete them in a timely fashion. For more information on the restructuring of our loans with the Bank, see Item 4 - Information on the Company -"Recent Developments – Loans". 7 We intend to continue pursuing businesses to acquire in order to expand our business into new markets. Our current business strategy includes selective expansion into new markets. Our future success and growth depends upon our successful penetration of these new markets. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to further expand our product line, customer base and technical talent through other acquisitions in the automated inspection industry. Acquisitions inherently involve numerous risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters, the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition, failure to commercialize purchased technologies, and the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from technological obsolescence or lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets. The inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. More specifically, should we fail to develop products which provide the necessary standards of inspection, given the capital investments that we have made in order to penetrate these new markets, such failure could adversely affect our longer-term plans for expanding our business and may even cause the cessation of our business. For further information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company -- History and Development of the Company”; Item 4- Information on the Company-"Recent Developments- ScanMaster Transaction"; and Item 10, “Additional Information - Material Contracts”. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Although the composition of our customers changes from year to year, we expect to continue to receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In each of 2007 and 2008, none of our customers in any area of business accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. In each of 2007, 2009 and 2010, we had one customer that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the field of automated optical vision inspection. We expect that sales of our products to relatively few customers could continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these key customers or that such customers will not cancel purchase orders, reschedule, or decrease their level of purchases. Loss or cancellation of business to these customers could seriously harm our financial results and business. 8 Competition in the automated inspection industry is intense. If we are unable to distinguish our products as superior to those of our competitors, our business may be seriously harmed. Several companies working with the textile, non-woven and technical fabric industries have developed products with similar visual inspection or quality monitoring capabilities, such as BarcoVision, IsraVision and Cognex. It is possible that systems developed by these or other future competitors will prove more effective than our systems and that potential customers will prefer them. The competition for the development and sale of advanced automated inspection systems in other industries and for other applications is also intense. To the extent that providers of automated inspection systems may choose to focus on or develop advanced automated inspection technology for the industries for which we attempt to develop products, we could face significant competition in the future. If we are unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the industries in which we operate or are unable to convince potential customers of the superiority of our products in markets in which we seek to compete, our business may be seriously harmed. There can be no assurance that our potential competitors will not develop products that will render our products less competitive. Our potential competitors operating in other industries may be more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than we have. Fluctuations in the market may create periodic increases in expenses and/ or reductions in demand that would be difficult to offset. Historically, our highest level of net sales has been in the fourth quarter of each year. Nevertheless, we have experienced and may in the future experience significant fluctuations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include the timing of significant orders and shipments, product mix, delays in shipment, installation and/or acceptance of systems, capital spending patterns of customers, customer manufacturing cycles, trade shows, anticipated new product introductions by us or by others, competition and pricing, new product introductions by us or our competitors, the timing of research and development expenditures, expansion of marketing and support operations, changes in material costs, production or quality problems, currency fluctuations, disruptions in sources of supply, regulatory changes and general economic conditions. Moreover, due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our costs, including personnel and facilities costs, we would not be able to reduce costs in any quarter to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in net sales, and such a shortfall would have a proportionately greater impact on our results of operations for that quarter. Thus, changes in the number of systems shipped in any given quarter can produce substantial fluctuations in net sales, gross profits and net income from quarter to quarter. These or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We cannot guarantee market acceptance of our products. Our success depends on the acceptance of our products by existing and new customers. Market acceptance of our automated visual inspection and quality monitoring systems will depend, in large part, on the pricing of the products and our ability to demonstrate the cost and quality advantages of our systems over human visual inspection and quality monitoring. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market our products successfully or that any of our current or future products will be accepted in the marketplace. 9 We may have flaws in the design or manufacture of our products. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, including those products of the businesses we have recently acquired, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that these actions will be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs, or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our international sales could be adversely affected by changes in domestic and foreign regulations. Our systems have been sold primarily in the United States, Europe and the Far East. We are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, staffing and managing foreign operations, transportation delays and seasonal reduction of business activities. Additionally, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. General economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s results. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions, including the disruption in financial and credit markets, pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our and our customers’ products, as well as our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the situation continues or worsens, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services, or supplier or customer disruptions, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in keeping pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry. The technology incorporated in automated inspection and quality monitoring systems is characterized by rapid changes. Moreover, the emergence of new technologies can rapidly render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to continue to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products that can gain market acceptance on a timely basis will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. In addition, we intend to diversify our business by developing new products based on our own technology. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage transitions from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. 10 We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our success depends in a large part on certain of our personnel, including our sales representatives, executive, research and development personnel and our technical staff. The loss of the services of these personnel would have a material adverse effect on us. There is considerable competition for the services of such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able either to retain our current personnel or acquire additional qualified personnel as needed. We may not be able to protect our intellectual proprietary rights. We rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, our employees who have access to confidential information are required to sign confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. We hold a registered patent in France and patent applications pending in Israel with respect to certain technology incorporated in the video cameras used by our systems. We believe that these efforts to protect our proprietary information provide only limited protection. Our confidentiality and non-competition agreements may not be enforceable and our proprietary technology may not remain a secret. Others may develop similar technology and use this technology to compete with us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, former employees and other unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. For more information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company -- Business Overview -- Intellectual Property Rights for Textile Industry”. We may become involved in litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business. For more information, see Item 8, “Financial Information -- Litigation”. Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares We may require additional financing. In the fourth quarter of 2009, our then controlling shareholder, Mivtach Shamir ("Mivtach") through its wholly-owned subsidiary, M.S.N.D. Real Estate Holdings Ltd., invested an aggregate amount of approximately $1.8 million in our company. Mivtach invested approximately $1.2 million in cash and an additional approximately $627,000 through the conversion of outstanding loans plus interest. Mivtach also loaned us an aggregate of approximately $850,000 during the first quarter of 2010, and we have entered into an agreement with Mivtach pursuant to which we will repay the loan over five years in equal quarterly installments, plus interest at the US Dollar annual LIBOR rate. In June 2010, we restructured our bank debt with our banks. Pursuant to the terms of the restructuring, the banks forgave approximately $2.4 million of our debt and the debt of our former subsidiary, ScanMaster. We will repay debt of $1 million to the banks over a period of five (5) years, and we will repay an additional amount of $600,000 over a period of ten (10) years. The debt restructuring was contingent upon the consummation of the sale of ScanMaster, which was completed in June 2010. The banks' approval was further contingent upon certain commitments made by Yaron Menashe, our chief financial officer and Sam Cohen, our chief executive officer, who, as of June, 2011, hold an aggregate of approximately 47% of our shares. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that the recent measures taken to restructure our debt will be sufficient to continue running our operations, and we may determine that it is in our best efforts to sell additional equity or debt securities and seek to obtain additional financing. We may not, however, be able to obtain additional financing on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. In addition, given the existing potential for significant dilution in light of the large number of outstanding convertible securities as well as the large number of our ordinary shares we have registered or have an obligation to register, our ability to complete additional debt or equity financing may be very limited. For more information regarding our refinancing, change in controlling shareholders or share registration obligations, see Item 4. "Information on the Company- Recent Developments" and Item 7, "Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions-Related Party Transactions". 11 The large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. As of June 30, 2011: · 69,652,779 of our shares were outstanding; · 16,679,412 warrants held by institutions and major shareholders (including our current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer; and · 6,370,216 options held by employees and former employees. As of June 30, 2011 a total of 92,702,407 of our ordinary shares were issued and outstanding or convertible into our ordinary shares within 60 days. Of these securities, 42,866,401 are held by affiliates out of which 180,250 have been registered under registration statements which we have filed. Should the convertible securities be exercised or the registered shares be sold, the increase in the number of our shares in the market could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and materially impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities and could result in increased volatility in the price of our shares. Our ordinary shares may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Trading in our ordinary shares has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders' ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods, or possibly at all. Thinly traded ordinary shares can be more volatile than ordinary shares traded in an active public market. The average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares in June 2011 was 7,768 shares. The high and low bid price of our ordinary shares for the last two years has been $0.05 and $0.13, respectively. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. 12 Our Ordinary Shares are deemed to be “Penny Stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our ordinary shares are deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Penny stocks are shares: · with a price of less than $5.00 per share; · that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; · whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system; or · in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our ordinary shares by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our share price to decline. Our ordinary shares are currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and may be difficult to buy and sell. On November 19, 2003, our ordinary shares were delisted from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board as a result of our failure to comply with the $2.5 million minimum shareholder equity requirement. Consequently, selling and buying our securities has become more difficult because of delays in the timing of transactions and in obtaining accurate quotations. Furthermore, broker-dealers are subject to an SEC rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale. These factors may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our ordinary shares and of shareholders to sell our ordinary shares in the secondary market and in turn could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise be obtained. For more information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company -- History and Development of the Company” and Item 9, “The Offer and Listing -- Market and Share Price History”. Our results are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Due to the current downturn in the world economy which began in 2008, the securities markets in general have experienced increased volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many hi-tech companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities has often been unrelated to their operating performance, they have been experiencing and may continue to experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities market in general, and in relation to our shares in particular, may affect our ability to raise additional financing in the future. 13 Risks Related to Doing Business in Israel Conditions in Israel may affect our operations. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our corporate offices, research and development operations and production facilities are located in, Israel. Although almost all of our current sales are made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. From October 2000 until recently, there was an increase in violence between Israel and the Palestinians, primarily but not exclusively in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The election of representatives of the Hamas militant group in January 2006 to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council, their taking over the Gaza Strip, as well as the war with the Islamic militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon in July and August 2006 created additional regional unrest and uncertainty. The hostilities with Hamas in the Gaza Strip further significantly escalated in December 2008 and January 2009. Since February 2011, Egypt has experienced political turbulence, following the resignation of Hosni Mubarak as president, due to ongoing protests throughout Egypt, and the appointment of a military regime in his stead, which may damage the current peaceful and diplomatic relations between Israel and Egypt, which could affect the region as a whole. Similar civil unrest and political turbulence has occurred in other countries in the region and is affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and economic relationships that exist between the State of Israel and some of these countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. These situations may potentially escalate in the future to more violent events which may affect Israel and us. Ongoing and revived hostilities with the Palestinians or Arab countries might require more widespread military reserve service by some of our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, several Arab and Muslim countries still restrict business with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. The political and security situation in Israel and/or in the surrounding countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and may even result in parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Many of our facilities are located in Israel. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot give any assurance that security and political conditions will not have such an effect in the future. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on us of these uprisings, an increase in hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region. Any events that affect the State of Israel or the surrounding region may impact us in unpredictable ways. 14 Furthermore, all non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, or older for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations, as well as certain female adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. We believe that a maximum of 1 of our employees, 5% of our employees at any one time, could be called for active duty under emergency circumstances. There have been significant call-ups of military reservists in the past, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact such conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. Our operations could be disrupted by the extended absence of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The Israeli rate of inflation may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. Dollar. Most of our sales are made in U.S. Dollars. We occasionally agree to make sales in other currencies, usually the Euro. This exposes us to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates vis-à-vis the U.S. Dollar. We utilize foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate these risks. Under these contracts, increases or decreases in our foreign currency transactions are partially offset by gains and losses on the forward contracts, so as to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. However, our Dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the Dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from such fluctuations. For more information, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects -- Operating Results -- Impact of Inflation and Devaluation on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets” and Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk -- Foreign Currency Exchange and Interest Rate Risk”. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, which may change or be withdrawn. We benefit from certain Israeli government grants, programs and tax benefits. To be eligible for these grants, programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making certain specified investments in fixed assets, and complying with certain labor laws in Israel. If we fail to meet certain conditions in the future, we could be required to refund payments under these programs or pay certain taxes. There can be no assurance that such programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or otherwise. The termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 15 Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. It may be difficult to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or upon any such officers and directors or professional advisors or to realize in the U.S. upon judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability of the company or such persons under U.S. federal securities laws. There is some degree of doubt amongst legal experts as to whether Israeli courts would (i) enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the company or such officers and directors or professional advisors predicated solely upon the civil liabilities provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, or (ii) impose liabilities in original actions against the company or such officers and directors and professional advisors predicated solely upon such U.S. laws. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against any such persons or us. An investor may also find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. federal securities laws against us or against our directors or officers. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws and rule that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Therefore it may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. We are unlikely to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. Under the Israeli Companies Law, dividends may only be paid out of profits legally available for distribution (the “Profits Criteria”) and provided that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. In addition, a competent court may approve, as per a motion to be filed by a company in accordance with the Israeli Companies Law requirements, a payment which does not meet the Profit Criteria, provided that the court was convinced that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will prevent the company from satisfying its existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. We do not expect to declare or pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. 16 Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our Memorandum of Association, our Articles of Association, and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from misusing his power, including, among other things, when voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital and mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from exploiting any other shareholder of his or her rights as a shareholder. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote has a duty of fairness toward the company. Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness, but provides that remedies generally available upon a breach of contract will apply also in the event of a breach of the duty to act with fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or otherwise encumber a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. These provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or impede a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders and therefore potentially depress the price of our shares. 