Item 1A. Risk Factors The convergence of voice and data communications technologies could eliminate our competitive advantages and may, in fact, put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may experience increased competitive pressures and access line losses, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and earnings. One of the critical drivers in the communications industry today is the convergence of voice and data communication technologies into various IP based platforms, all of which have the potential to provide VoIP, broadband services, and IP video over telephone companies’ copper and fiber networks, cable companies’ coaxial and fiber networks, wireless telephone companies’ wireless networks and satellite companies’ satellite networks. Although each of the networks has relative strengths and weaknesses, they are all effectively in competition for customers’ communications needs. These developments mean that we are competing for our existing customer base in our RLEC and CLEC territories with cable TV companies, wireless telephone companies, satellite communications providers and VoIP providers. The decreases in the number of access lines in our RLEC territories reflect such increased competition, in addition to the elimination of lines by our customers as they shift to DSL for high-speed Internet access. We may continue to experience net access line losses in our RLEC markets. Our inability to retain access lines may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These developments have placed our core telephone business at risk, although also enabling us to compete in the provision of cable TV services. The “Competitive Environment” subsection above contains a more extensive discussion of this development in our business. It is basic policy of the FCC and the PA PUC to encourage competition in the communications industry. Our RLECs have a federal rural exemption from providing certain interconnection requirements including co-location, unbundled network elements and resale of tariffed services at discounted rates. This exemption remains in place until we receive a request for interconnection and the state public service commission determines that the request will not have a negative impact on universal service, will not be unduly economically burdensome and is technically feasible. Our RLECs are in a position of being required to challenge any request for removal of their federal rural exemption which may require them to provide interconnection to other providers without adequate compensation. This requirement to challenge such requests would cause us to incur administrative and regulatory costs as a result of administrative proceedings to determine whether the provider requesting interconnection has met its burden under the rural exemption of TA-96, cause our operating costs to increase as a result of having to make such interconnections and, at the same time, cause us to suffer a loss of 22 Table of Contents customers to such competitive providers. Local cable TV companies may use their own facilities and apply to be licensed as a facilities-based CLEC within our franchise territory in order to attempt to qualify for number portability. This number portability would enable our existing telephone customers to switch to VoIP services provided by the cable TV companies and possibly retain the same telephone numbers, thus making the transfer of local telephone services to VoIP far more convenient to the customer. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, major communications companies. These competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers than we do. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to compete against these large communications providers. In addition, we may not be able to achieve or maintain adequate technology to remain competitive. Our continued addition of fiber to enhance our broadband capacity may be more difficult as a result of our indebtedness than for our competitors. Accordingly, it may be difficult to compete in our markets. We are subject to a complex and uncertain regulatory environment that may require us to alter our business plans. The United States communications industry is subject to federal, state and local regulations that are continually evolving. As new communications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations, and we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective manner. Federal and state regulatory trends toward a more competitive marketplace through reduced competitive entry standards are likely to have negative effects on our business and our ability to compete. In this regard, the regulatory environment governing ILEC operations has been and will likely continue to be liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access, which may increase the likelihood of new competitors offering similar services in our service areas. The introduction of new competitors could have a negative effect on our RLEC operating results, yet at the same time present operating benefits to our CLEC business. For more information, see the discussion under “Regulatory Environment” above. Our RLECs’ intrastate services are subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (“PA PUC”). We have entered into a regulatory framework, commonly known as our Chapter 30 Plan, with the PA PUC for our intrastate operations under which we agreed to meet certain broadband service delivery parameters in exchange for a price-cap formula, rather than rate-of-return regulation, in determining our pricing for intrastate services. The subsection entitled “Pennsylvania Regulation” under “Regulatory Environment” above contains a more extensive discussion on matters related to intrastate rates. Prices for RLEC’s interstate services, consisting primarily of subscriber line charges and access charges for interstate and international toll calls, are regulated by the FCC based on rate of return regulations and the “average schedule” formulas developed by NECA. Changes in the average schedule formula amounts developed by NECA and implemented annually in July could have an impact on the RLEC’s future revenues. The FCC has made, and will continue to make, regulatory changes that will affect our Wireline operations. The subsection entitled “Access Charge Reform” under “Regulatory Environment” above contains a more extensive discussion on recent matters related to interstate rates. Our CLEC depends, in certain circumstances, upon the technology and capabilities of other telephone companies as well as the quality, availability and maintenance of the facilities of those telephone companies. We must also maintain efficient procedures for ordering, provisioning, maintaining and repairing facilities from these other telephone companies. We may not be able to obtain facilities and services of satisfactory quality from other telephone companies, or on satisfactory terms and conditions, in which case we may experience delays in the growth of our CLEC networks and the degradation of the quality of our service to customers. All of these developments may result in an even more highly competitive environment in which telephone companies may be in direct competition with cable TV operators with respect to communications services in many locations. This development could cause telephone companies to lose their competitive edge in their territories and, consequently, result in significant inroads into their core telephone/voice business. 23 Table of Contents The FCC is currently reviewing proposals to reform intercarrier compensation. There is considerable uncertainty about these proposals and their potential impact on D&E, but the impact could be material. The FCC is considering proposals to reform intercarrier compensation. One such proposal was scheduled to be on the FCC’s November 4, 2008 meeting agenda; however, the proposal was removed from the November 4th agenda. Instead, the FCC released a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on three specific proposals to reform intercarrier compensation and universal service. The first proposal is the draft proposal which was removed from the November 4th agenda. The second and third proposals are modified versions of the first draft proposal. We have attempted to determine the impact of these proposals as best we can, by working through our trade associations at both the state and federal levels, and by reviewing the proposals and any additional information that has been disseminated in the public domain. Each proposal affects our RLECs differently. We are aware that some terms and conditions being discussed include a substantially lower rate per minute for terminating minutes, increases to the subscriber line charge to recover some of the access revenues lost to the rate decline, protections for rural carriers, like our Company, that are rate of return carriers in the interstate jurisdiction, including the possibility that such carriers qualify for recovery of revenue reductions from a federal fund, and a transition period over which these changes would occur. In addition to the uncertainties surrounding these issues, it is also not known how these proposals impact NECA and its settlement process and how our CLEC would be impacted. As a result of these uncertainties and because we do not know which proposal the FCC will adopt, it is impossible for us to determine the potential impact of this proceeding on our Company. Our service areas are concentrated in the eastern half of Pennsylvania and thus our business is subject to regional economic conditions. Unlike many larger competitors, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. Substantially all of our customers and operations are located in the eastern half of Pennsylvania. Due to our geographic concentration, the successful operation and growth of our business is largely dependent on regional economic conditions. The regional economy, in turn, is dependent upon many factors, including the strength of small to medium sized businesses and continued growth in the manufacturing and service industries. Poor economic conditions and other factors beyond our control in our service areas could cause us to lose access lines and revenues. The global financial conditions may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. We cannot predict all of the areas in which these financial conditions may impact our business. However, some examples of areas that may be impacted could include the following: • The Company’s pension plan assets declined in value by approximately 29% for the year ended December 31, 2008. It is possible that a future decline in the value of plan assets could have a negative impact on the funded status of the plan. As a result, our pension expense and cash contributions to the plans could increase in the future. • Overall demand for our products and services could be adversely impacted, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. • Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access these markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We have no immediate plans to access the capital markets or our revolving credit facility. 24 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could restrict our operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $186.1 million of total indebtedness. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations because we will use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, if any, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Additionally, our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns and competitive pressures. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and adversely affect the conduct of our business. These covenants place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur more indebtedness, pay dividends or repurchase our stock over a $10 million annual limit, make acquisitions or investments, use assets as security in other transactions, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with others, dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds, create liens on our assets and extend credit. Future goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges could adversely affect our financial results. Goodwill and intangible assets comprise a significant amount of our total assets. As of December 31, 2008, goodwill and intangible assets accounted for $235.8 million, or 52%, of our total assets. In 2008, we recognized non-cash intangible asset impairment charges of $45.8 million ($26.8 million after tax) as described above. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the Company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis by comparing their carrying value to fair value, or between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that indicate their fair value may be less than carrying value. Factors that could reduce the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets below carrying value include a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a reduction in expected future cash flows and other factors. Significant judgment is required in developing the estimates and assumptions used in evaluations for impairment. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on the fair value of the goodwill and intangible assets and significant impairment charges could result. While any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, it could significantly reduce net income and shareholders’ equity and affect future compliance with our debt covenants. We may not be successful in entering into a new collective bargaining agreement. We have 66 employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expires July 12, 2009. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in entering into a favorable agreement. Unfavorable negotiations could potentially have a negative impact on future operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 