ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor that could result in reduced earnings, liquidity or operating losses, could in turn adversely affect our ability to meet our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes such customers' demand for our products to be cyclical, creating uncertainty regarding our future profitability. The titanium industry in general, and TIMET specifically, has historically derived a substantial portion of its business from the commercial aerospace sector. Consequently, the cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in our performance. Over the past 25 years, the titanium industry had cyclical peaks in mill product shipments in 1989, 1997 and 2001 and cyclical lows in 1983, 1991, 1999 and 2002. Prior to 2004, demand for titanium reached its highest level in 1997, when industry mill product shipments reached approximately 60,700 metric tons. However, since that peak, industry mill product shipments have fluctuated significantly, primarily due to a continued change in demand for titanium from the commercial aerospace sector, but also due to geopolitical instability and the economic impact of terrorist threats and attacks. Sales of our products to the commercial aerospace sector accounted for 57% of our total sales revenue in each of the last three years. Events that could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises or reduced orders from commercial airlines resulting from continued operating losses at the airlines, could significantly decrease our results of operations, and our business and financial condition could significantly decline. Adverse changes to, or interruptions in, our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers could reduce our revenues. In 2005, approximately 57% of our revenues were derived from sales to the commercial aerospace sector. Sales under LTAs with certain customers in the commercial aerospace sector account for a significant percentage of our annual sales revenue. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls-Royce, Snecma, UTC and Wyman-Gordon, under the LTAs we have with these customers, our sales could decrease substantially. Our failure to develop new markets would result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace sector, and our operating results would, accordingly, remain cyclical. In an effort to reduce dependence on the commercial aerospace market and to increase participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to developing new markets and applications for our products, principally in automotive, oil and gas and other emerging markets for titanium. Developing these emerging market applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to the fact that titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. We may not be successful in developing new markets or applications for our products, significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our dependence upon certain critical raw materials that are subject to price and availability fluctuations could lead to increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers around the world, and principally on those located in Australia, for our supply of titanium-containing rutile ore, one of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge. While chlorine, another of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge, is generally widely available, we currently obtain our chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. Also, we cannot supply all our needs for all grades of titanium sponge and scrap internally and are therefore dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of our raw material requirements. All of our major competitors utilize sponge and scrap as raw materials in their melt operations. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in certain steel-making operations. Current demand for these steel products, especially from China, have produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap at a time when titanium scrap generation rates are at low levels because of the lower commercial aircraft build rates in recent years. Purchase prices and availability of these critical materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have experienced operating and net losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred operating losses during each of 2003, 2002, 2000 and 1999 and incurred net losses in each year from 1999 through 2003. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following: o market demand and prices for titanium products, particularly demand and pricing in the commercial aerospace sector; o our ability to increase prices for titanium products to a level that exceeds any increases in materials or production costs; o the avoidance of any material adverse developments either in the capacity utilization for the production of titanium sponge or the availability of titanium scrap; and o favorable general economic conditions throughout the world. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could decrease pricing for our products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of non-U.S. participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% "normal trade relations" tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time-to-time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future, and we may not be successful in resisting efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products. See discussion of Doha Round in "Business - Competition." We may be unable to reach or maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions representing a significant portion of our employees. Our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and our production and maintenance workers in Henderson, Nevada, are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2008, for the respective locations. Approximately 64% of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our U.K. employees expires in 2008, and the agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. A labor dispute or work stoppage could materially decrease our operating results. We may not succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace expiring agreements or to maintain satisfactory relations under existing collective bargaining agreements. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. Because we are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations, we may be required to remediate the environmental effects of our operations or take steps to modify our operations to comply with these laws and regulations, which could reduce our profitability. Various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations govern our operations. Throughout the history of our operations, we have used and manufactured, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. Some or all of these risks may result in liabilities that could reduce our profitability. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The global markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, producers of metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities. Such facilities could be used or modified without substantial expenditures to process titanium mill products, which could lead to increased competition and decreased pricing for our titanium products. In addition, many factors, including the historical presence of excess capacity in the titanium industry, work to intensify the price competition for available business at low points in the business cycle. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 