Item 1A. Risk Factors The convergence of voice and data communications technologies could eliminate our competitive advantages and may, in fact, put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may experience increased competitive pressures, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and earnings. One of the critical drivers in the communications industry today is the convergence of voice and data communication technologies into various IP based platforms, all of which have the potential to provide VoIP, broadband services, and IP video over telephone companies’ copper and fiber networks, cable companies’ coaxial and fiber networks, wireless telephone companies’ wireless networks and satellite companies’ satellite networks. Although each of the networks has relative strengths and weaknesses, they are all effectively in competition for customers’ communications needs. These developments mean that we are competing for our existing customer base in our RLEC and CLEC territories with cable TV companies, wireless telephone companies, satellite communications providers and VoIP providers. The recent decreases in the number of access lines in our RLEC territories reflect such increased competition, in addition to the elimination of lines by our customers as they shift to DSL for high-speed Internet access. These developments have placed our core telephone business at risk, although also enabling us to compete in the provision of cable TV services. It is basic policy of the FCC and the PA PUC to encourage competition in the communications industry. Our RLECs have an exemption from providing certain interconnection requirements including collocation, unbundled network elements and resale of tariffed services at discounted rates. Further, our Buffalo Valley RLEC has a suspension of these requirements under state law through December 31, 2008. This exemption remains in place, and will remain in place after December 31, 2008 for our Buffalo Valley RLEC, unless and until we receive a request for interconnection and the state public service commission determines that the request will not have a negative impact on universal service, will not be unduly economically burdensome and is technically feasible. Our RLECs are in a position of being required to challenge any request for removal of their rural exemption which may require them to provide interconnection to other providers without adequate compensation. This requirement to challenge such requests would cause us to incur administrative and regulatory costs as a result of administrative proceedings to determine whether the provider requesting interconnection has met its burden under the rural exemption of TA-96, cause our operating costs to increase as a result of having to make such 22 Table of Contents interconnections and, at the same time, cause us to suffer a loss of customers to such competitive providers. Local cable TV companies may use their own facilities and apply to be licensed as a facilities-based CLEC within our franchise territory in order to attempt to qualify for number portability. This number portability would enable our existing telephone customers to switch to VoIP services provided by the cable TV companies and possibly retain the same telephone numbers, thus making the transfer of local telephone services to VoIP far more convenient to the customer. Service Electric Telephone Company, LLC (“Service Electric”) is a facilities-based CLEC competitor primarily in our Conestoga RLEC market. Service Electric has received authority to operate in our three RLEC markets and has an interconnection agreement with us allowing them to operate in our RLEC markets. CORE Communications, Inc (“CORE”) filed an application on August 19, 2005 with the PA PUC to be a facilities-based CLEC providing service in our RLEC markets. The PA PUC has granted CORE a certificate to provide telecommunications services in the entire rural telephone company territory of Pennsylvania and the Commonwealth Court has affirmed the PA PUC’s decision to grant CORE a CLEC certificate. A hearing before a PA PUC Administrative Law Judge is scheduled for March 11, 2008 through March 13, 2008 in regard to issues involving interconnection agreements between CORE and other RLECs, including our RLECs, with legal briefs and final offers by both sides to be filed by April 30, 2008. CORE is unable to operate in our RLEC markets until the PA PUC resolves our interconnection agreement arbitration proceeding and we enter into a PA PUC approved interconnection agreement with them. Comcast Business Communications has filed an application to be a facilities-based CLEC in our Conestoga RLEC territory in areas where they currently have facilities to provide cable TV services. In areas served by our CLEC, the incumbent carrier, Verizon, enjoys certain business advantages, including its size, financial resources, brand recognition and network connection to virtually all of our customers and potential customers in those areas. Similarly, in areas where we do or may provide video services, the incumbent cable operators enjoy certain business advantages, including their size, financial resources, brand recognition, and ownership of or superior access to programming. As an integrated communications provider, we face competition from: • competitive local exchange carriers, including Level 3 Communications, Citizens Communications, Choice One, XO Communications and Service Electric; • wireless service providers, including AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, Immix and T-Mobile Wireless; • internet service providers, including AOL, EarthLink and MSN; • cable television companies, including Comcast, Pencor Services, Atlantic Broadband LLC, Service Electric and CATV Service, Inc.; • voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) providers, including Vonage, AT&T and Verizon; • providers of communications services, such as long distance services, including AT&T and Verizon Communications; and • systems integration providers, including CoreBTS, NCSI(Netcomm), Morefield and Weidenhammer Systems Corp. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, major communications companies. These competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers than we do. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to compete against these large communications providers. In addition, we may not be able to achieve or maintain adequate technology to remain competitive. Our continued addition of fiber to enhance our broadband capacity may be more difficult as a result of our indebtedness than for our competitors. Accordingly, it may be difficult to compete in our markets. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to a complex and uncertain regulatory environment that may require us to alter our business plans. The United States communications industry is subject to federal, state and local regulations that are continually evolving. As new communications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations, and we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective manner. Federal and state regulatory trends toward a more competitive marketplace through reduced competitive entry standards are likely to have negative effects on our business and our ability to compete. In this regard, the regulatory environment governing ILEC operations has been and will likely continue to be liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access, which may increase the likelihood of new competitors offering similar services in our service areas. The introduction of new competitors could have a negative effect on our RLEC operating results, yet at the same time present operating benefits to our CLEC business. For more information, see the discussion under “Business — Regulatory Environment” above. Prices for RLEC’s interstate services, consisting primarily of subscriber line charges and access charges for interstate and international toll calls, are regulated by the FCC based on the “average schedule” formulas developed by NECA. Changes in the average schedule formula amounts developed by NECA and implemented annually in July could have an impact on the RLEC’s future revenues. Our RLECs filed for changes in local and intrastate access rates to be effective July 1, 2006, in accordance with our Chapter 30 Plan. On July 11, 2007, the PA PUC rescinded its June 2006 order allowing the increase in our access rates. We have filed a request for reconsideration and clarification of the order on a number of issues and have proposed an increase in local service rates for one of our RLECs retroactive to November 15, 2006. On November 29, 2007, the PA PUC granted our request to increase local rates retroactive to November 15, 2006, but denied our request to collect the amounts in excess of the existing caps for residential and business single party services from the PaUSF. On December 17, 2007, the Office of Consumer Advocate filed a petition for reconsideration, claiming the PUC erred in its ruling that rates could be increased above the existing residential caps established by the PA PUC. We filed in support of the petition while Verizon has filed opposition to the petition. The PA PUC granted the petition for review and is currently reviewing the merits of the reconsideration request. The subsection entitled “Pennsylvania Regulation” under “Business-Regulatory Environment” above contains a more extensive discussion of this matter. The FCC has made, and will continue to make, regulatory changes that will affect our Wireline operations. Our CLEC depends, in certain circumstances, upon the technology and capabilities of other telephone companies as well as the quality, availability and maintenance of the facilities of those telephone companies. We must also maintain efficient procedures for ordering, provisioning, maintaining and repairing facilities from these other telephone companies. We may not be able to obtain facilities and services of satisfactory quality from other telephone companies, or on satisfactory terms and conditions, in which case we may experience delays in the growth of our CLEC networks and the degradation of the quality of our service to customers. The FCC has yet to significantly regulate VoIP offerings, leading to regulatory uncertainty which has placed VoIP services at a regulatory advantage over our RLEC legacy telephone services. The FCC has ordered strict requirements for the provision of 911 services by VoIP providers. All interconnected VoIP providers must notify customers regarding the provisions of 911 service and certify to the FCC that existing customers have been informed and that they acknowledged receipt of such information. Our ISP is in full compliance with the FCC requirements. In addition to regulation of 911 service, the FCC has ordered that the requirements to make networks available for electronic surveillance by law enforcement agencies under the federal Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) applies to facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and a broad category of VoIP providers. We are in compliance with the CALEA requirements that apply to facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and interconnected VoIP service providers. All of these developments may result in an even more highly competitive environment in which telephone companies may be in direct competition with cable TV operators with respect to communications services in 24 Table of Contents many locations. This development could cause telephone companies to lose their competitive edge in their territories and, consequently, result in significant inroads into their core telephone/voice business. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $194.0 million of total indebtedness. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations because we will use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, if any, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Additionally, our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns and competitive pressures. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and adversely affect the conduct of our business. These covenants place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur more indebtedness, pay dividends over a $10 million annual limit, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions, make acquisitions or investments, use assets as security in other transactions, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with others, dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds, create liens on our assets and extend credit. Our Systems Integration Segment has experienced losses in recent years. Our Systems Integration segment has experienced losses in recent years and, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $5.2 million ($4.7 million net of tax), which was the entire amount of goodwill of the Systems Integration segment. In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge for our Systems Integration intangible asset of $2.4 million ($1.4 million net of tax) for customer relationships of which, $1.9 million and $0.5 million were reported in continuing and discontinued operations, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any goodwill or intangible assets recorded on the balance sheet of the Systems Integration segment. On September 29, 2006, we completed the sale of assets of the Voice Systems Business, which has been classified as a discontinued operation. In order to improve the financial performance of this segment, we have continued to streamline our operation by reducing expenses and focusing on the most profitable revenue streams that support our core Wireline offerings. We have taken steps recently to focus this segment on the promotion and sale of professional services, network management and managed services, which are believed to generate recurring revenue. However, there is no assurance that these steps will result in this segment becoming profitable in the near future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 