Risk Factors,” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” GENERAL DESCRIPTION The terms “United Fire,” “United Fire Group,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to United Fire & Casualty Company or United Fire & Casualty Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliate, as the context requires. We are engaged in the business of writing property and casualty insurance and life insurance. We are an Iowa corporation, incorporated in January 1946. Our principal executive office is located at 118 Second Avenue SE, P.O. Box 73909, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52407-3909. Telephone: 319-399-5700. We report our operations in two business segments: property and casualty insurance and life insurance. A table reflecting revenues, net income and assets attributable to our operating segments is included in Part II, Item 8, Note 11, “Segment Information.” All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Our property and casualty insurance segment includes United Fire & Casualty Company and the following companies, which United Fire & Casualty Company owns 100 percent, directly or indirectly: Addison Insurance Company, an Illinois property and casualty insurer; Lafayette Insurance Company, a Louisiana property and casualty insurer; United Fire & Indemnity Company, a Texas property and casualty insurer; American Indemnity Financial Corporation, a Delaware holding company; and Texas General Indemnity Company, a Colorado property and casualty insurer. United Fire Lloyds, a Texas property and casualty insurer, is an affiliate of and operationally and financially controlled by United Fire & Indemnity Company. Most of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool’s capital and surplus, rather than being limited to policy exposures of a size commensurate with each participant’s own surplus level. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all of the insurance business that is written, and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses based on percentages defined in the arrangement. Our life insurance segment consists of United Life Insurance Company, an Iowa life insurer and wholly owned subsidiary of United Fire & Casualty Company. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 674 full-time employees. 1 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 Available Information United Fire Group provides free and timely access to all company reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.unitedfiregroup.com. Select “SEC Filings” to view the list of filings, which includes: • Annual reports (Form 10-K) • Quarterly reports (Form 10-Q) • Current reports (Form 8-K) • Amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our Code of Ethics is also available at www.unitedfiregroup.com in the Investor Relations section. To view it, select “Corporate Governance” and then “Code of Ethics.” Free paper copies of any materials that we file with the SEC can also be obtained by writing to Investor Relations, United Fire Group, P.O. Box 73909, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52407-3909 or by visiting the SEC Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. For information about the Public Reference Room, call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION We market our products through our home office in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and two regional locations: Westminster, Colorado, a suburb of Denver, and Galveston, Texas. We are licensed as a property and casualty insurer in 43 states, primarily in the Midwest, West and South, plus the District of Columbia. We have 837 independent agencies representing us and our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries. The following table depicts the top five states for direct premiums written for our property and casualty insurance operations for 2008. Direct % to Total Direct (Dollars in Thousands) Premium Written Premium Written Texas $ 70,301 14.5 % Iowa 66,926 13.8 Colorado 46,763 9.7 Louisiana 42,467 8.8 Missouri 42,242 8.7 Direct Premium Written (1) $ 268,699 55.5 % (1) Please refer to the Non-GAAP financial measures section of this report for further explanation of this measure. 2 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 Our life insurance subsidiary is licensed in 28 states, primarily in the Midwest and West, and is represented by 952 independent agencies. The following table depicts the top five states for life insurance business for our life insurance operations for 2008. % to Total Direct Statutory Direct Statutory (Dollars in Thousands) Premium Volume Premium Volume Iowa $ 83,148 41.9 % Wisconsin 21,026 10.6 Nebraska 15,813 8.0 Minnesota 15,675 7.9 Illinois 15,020 7.6 Direct Statutory Premium Volume $ 150,682 76.0 % (1) Please refer to the Non-GAAP financial measures section of this report for further explanation of this measure. We staff our regional offices with underwriting, claims and marketing representatives and administrative technicians, all of whom provide support and assistance to the independent agencies. Also, home office staff technicians and specialists provide support to the subsidiaries, regional offices and independent agencies. We use management reports to monitor subsidiary and regional offices for overall results and conformity to our business policies. COMPETITION The property and casualty and life insurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with numerous property and casualty insurance companies in the regional and national market, many of which are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial and other resources. In addition, because our products are marketed exclusively through independent insurance agencies, most of which represent more than one company, we face competition within each agency. Our competitors include companies that market their products through agents, as well as companies that sell insurance directly to their customers. Our competitive advantages include our use of technology, knowledgeable and experienced underwriters, appropriate pricing, quality service to our policyholders and our agents, and a competitive commissions program. Because we rely heavily on independent agencies, we utilize a profit-sharing plan as an incentive for agents to place high-quality property and casualty insurance business with us. We estimate property and casualty agencies will receive profit-sharing payments of $7.4 million in 2009, based on business produced by the agencies in 2008. We also encounter significant competition in all lines of life and annuity business from other life insurance companies and other providers of financial services. Our life insurance company utilizes competitive commission rates, other sales incentives and quality service to attract and maintain its relationship with independent agencies. To enhance our ability to compete, we utilize technology in a variety of ways to assist our agents and improve the delivery of service to our policyholders. For example, our public Web site, which provides general company and product information, includes a section accessible exclusively to our agents where they can quote new business; submit applications and change requests, report new claims and process payments electronically. Our agents can access detailed information about their policyholders’ accounts, including policy declarations, coverage forms, billing transactions and claims information. Our agents can also use our Web site to access their experience reports, review detailed information about our products, order sales literature and download our applications, questionnaires and other forms. Our surety bond agents can issue and upload contract, license and permit bonds online, submit new bid bond requests and view detailed bond information. Our life agents can quote new life policies, view the status of customers’ applications and access detailed information on our annuity, universal life, term life and whole life policies. We electronically scan and store the majority of our documents, allowing multiple users to simultaneously retrieve and view them. Additionally, we provide our policyholders secure online access to their account information. We offer a variety of online payment options for our policyholders, including payment via credit card, debit card and electronic check. We believe our investment in technology allows us to provide enhanced service to our agents, policyholders and investors. 3 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 United Fire Group was named a “Top 10 Ease of Doing Business Performer” for 2008 in Deep Customer Connections Inc.’s (DCC) sixth annual Ease of Doing Business (EDB) survey. Over 7,400 independent agents and brokers assessed the performance of more than 250 property and casualty carriers as part of the survey. They rated the importance of 11 EDB factors, ranging from underwriting responsiveness and handling claims promptly to acting with the agency’s needs in mind. DCC specializes in helping property and casualty carriers achieve profitable growth by making it easy for their agents to work with them. DCC’s EDB Index® is an industry benchmark of carriers’ EDB performance. OPERATING SEGMENTS Incorporated by reference from Note 11. “Segment Information” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” REINSURANCE Incorporated by reference from Note 5. “Reinsurance” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” RESERVES Property and Casualty Insurance Segment Reserves for losses and loss settlement expenses (“loss reserves”) are management’s best estimates at a given point in time of what we expect to pay for claims, based on facts, circumstances and historical trends then known. The determination of reserves, particularly those relating to liability lines of insurance, reflects significant judgment factors. If, during the course of our regular monitoring of reserves, we determine that coverages previously written are incurring higher than expected losses, we will take action that may include, among others, increasing the related reserves. Any adjustments we make to reserves are reflected in operating results in the year in which we make those adjustments. As required by state law, we engage an independent actuary, Regnier Consulting Group, to render an opinion as to the adequacy of the statutory reserves we establish. The actuarial opinion is filed in those states where we are licensed. We do not discount loss reserves based on the time value of money. However, we consider inflation in the reserving process by reviewing cost trends, loss settlement expenses, historical reserving results and likely future economic conditions. There is no material differences between our statutory reserves and those established under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a more detailed discussion of our loss reserves. The table on the following page illustrates the change in our estimate of reserves for loss and loss settlement expenses for our property and casualty companies for the years 1999 through 2007. The first section shows the amount of the liability, as originally reported, at the end of each calendar year in our Consolidated Financial Statements. These reserves represent the estimated amount of losses and loss settlement expenses for losses arising in all prior years that are unpaid at the end of each year, including an estimate for our incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) losses, net of applicable ceded reinsurance. The second section displays the cumulative amount of net losses and loss settlement expenses paid for each year with respect to that liability. The third section shows the reestimated amount of the previously recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as more information becomes known about the losses for individual years. The last section compares the latest reestimated with the original estimate. Conditions and trends that have affected development of loss reserves in the past may not necessarily exist in the future. Accordingly, it would not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this table. 4 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 (Dollars in Thousands) Years Ended December 31, 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Gross liability for loss and loss settlement expenses $ 338,243 $ 358,032 $ 363,819 $ 392,649 $ 427,047 $ 464,889 $ 620,100 $ 518,886 $ 496,083 $ 586,109 Ceded loss and loss settlement expenses 27,606 37,526 36,909 35,760 27,307 28,609 60,137 40,560 38,800 52,508 Net liability for loss and loss settlement expenses $ 310,637 $ 320,506 $ 326,910 $ 356,889 $ 399,740 $ 436,280 $ 559,963 $ 478,326 $ 457,283 $ 533,601 Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 97,021 $ 110,516 $ 112,546 $ 107,271 $ 100,895 $ 110,016 $ 230,455 $ 148,593 $ 140,149 Two years later 154,886 166,097 172,538 172,158 167,384 166,592 321,110 235,975 Three years later 189,730 204,792 215,002 214,307 203,861 213,144 380,294 Four years later 213,190 230,889 240,973 237,150 231,278 242,579 Five years later 231,838 245,677 252,969 253,026 250,787 Six years later 241,540 252,153 264,311 265,304 Seven years later 245,145 259,621 273,153 Eight years later 249,302 264,713 Nine years later 253,274 Net liability reestimated as of: End of year $ 310,637 $ 320,506 $ 326,910 $ 356,889 $ 399,740 $ 436,280 $ 559,963 $ 478,326 $ 457,283 $ 533,601 One year later 273,706 273,469 315,854 344,590 361,153 358,796 534,998 433,125 457,831 Two years later 261,217 290,872 323,354 340,502 331,693 330,137 508,774 453,474 Three years later 273,921 300,011 321,168 324,582 317,187 319,335 538,451 Four years later 279,740 302,884 318,125 313,745 309,146 326,340 Five years later 279,653 298,428 309,033 308,304 316,227 Six years later 280,983 296,296 307,790 312,188 Seven years later 279,892 293,579 311,367 Eight years later 276,815 297,844 Nine years later 281,346 Net redundancy (deficiency) $ 29,291 $ 22,662 $ 15,543 $ 44,701 $ 83,513 $ 109,940 $ 21,512 $ 24,852 $ (548 ) Net reestimated liability $ 281,346 $ 297,844 $ 311,367 $ 312,188 $ 316,227 $ 326,340 $ 538,451 $ 453,474 $ 457,831 Reestimated ceded loss and loss settlement expenses 26,737 34,147 42,816 43,501 38,919 38,708 86,691 56,210 49,324 Gross reestimated liability $ 308,083 $ 331,991 $ 354,183 $ 355,689 $ 355,146 $ 365,048 $ 625,142 $ 509,684 $ 507,155 Gross redundancy (deficiency) $ 30,160 $ 26,041 $ 9,636 $ 36,960 $ 71,901 $ 99,841 $ (5,042 ) $ 9,202 $ (11,072 ) 5 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 Life Insurance Segment The policy reserves reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements are calculated in accordance with GAAP. We calculate our reserve for annuity and universal life policy deposits in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 97, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses on the Sale of Investments.” We establish a benefit reserve at the time of policy issuance in an amount equal to the deposits received. Subsequently, we adjust the benefit reserve for any additional deposits, interest credited and partial or complete withdrawals. We determine reserves for statutory purposes based upon mortality rates and interest rates specified by Iowa state law. Our life insurance subsidiary’s reserves meet or exceed the minimum statutory requirements. Griffith, Ballard & Company, an independent actuary, assists us in developing and analyzing our reserves on both a GAAP and statutory basis. For further discussion of our life insurance segment’s reserves see “Critical Accounting Estimates” contained in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” INVESTMENTS Incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Investments” and “Critical Accounting Estimates;” Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk;” and Note 1. “Significant Accounting Policies” under the headings “Investments” and “Securities Lending,” Note 2. “Summary of Investments,” and Note 3. “Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” contained in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” REGULATION We are subject to regulation and supervision in each of the states where our insurance companies are domiciled and licensed to conduct business. State insurance department commissioners regulate such matters as licensing, standards of solvency, premium rates, policy forms, investments, security deposits, accounting policy, form and content of financial statements, reserves for unpaid loss and loss settlement expenses, reinsurance, minimum capital and surplus requirements, dividends to shareholders, periodic examinations, and annual and other report filings. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. The majority of our insurance operations are in states requiring prior approval by regulators before proposed rates for property and casualty insurance policies may be implemented. However, rates proposed for life insurance generally become effective immediately upon filing with a state, even though the same state may require prior rate approval for other types of insurance. Because of this regulatory constraint, it is sometimes difficult to receive an adequate premium rate for our products, which can result in unsatisfactory underwriting results. Insurance regulatory authorities also perform periodic examinations of an insurer’s market conduct and other affairs. Despite strict oversight by state insurance regulators, insurance companies occasionally become insolvent. Each of our insurance companies are required to participate in state guaranty fund associations, whose purpose is to protect the policyholders of insolvent insurance companies. Guaranty fund associations assess solvent insurers to pay the claims of insolvent insurers. The assessments are based proportionately upon each solvent insurance company’s share of direct written premiums in the applicable state. Most state guaranty fund associations allow solvent insurers to recoup the assessments paid through future rate increases, surcharges or premium tax credits. However, there is no assurance that we will ultimately recover these assessments. At December 31, 2008, we had no liability for state guaranty fund assessments. 6 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 State insurance regulators also establish insurance funds to provide insurance coverage to those individuals unable to obtain insurance through the voluntary insurance market. Occasionally, these funds will issue assessments to insurance companies, including us, that write business within their states. The terms of some of these assessments allow for the amounts assessed to be recovered through surcharges to policyholders applied to insurance policies written in the state over a specific time period. Therefore, we may be entitled to recoup part or all of any assessments through future surcharges to policyholders. Our insurance companies are subject to state laws and regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit the amount of investment in certain categories. Noncompliance may cause nonconforming investments to be nonadmitted when measuring statutory capital and surplus and, in some instances, states may require us to sell the nonconforming securities. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with the investment laws and regulations of all states in which our insurance companies are domiciled. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) annually calculates 13 financial ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. A “usual range” of results for each ratio is used as a benchmark. Departure from the “usual range” on four or more of the ratios could lead to inquiries from individual state insurance departments as to certain aspects of a company’s business. None of our insurance companies had four or more ratios outside the “usual range” at December 31, 2008. In addition to the financial ratios, we are also required to calculate a minimum capital requirement for each of our insurance companies based on individual company insurance risk factors. These “risk-based capital” results are used to identify companies that require regulatory attention or the initiation of regulatory action. At December 31, 2008, all of our insurance companies had capital well in excess of the required levels. In January 2009, the NAIC took under advisement increasing the recovery time (from one year) currently allowed in the computation of deferred tax assets, which would increase the total assets and total equity reported by insurers on a statutory basis. We are not aware of any other current recommendations by the NAIC, the federal government, or other regulatory authorities in the states in which we conduct business that, if or when implemented, would have a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources or operations. FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING Our financial strength, as measured by statutory accounting principles, is regularly reviewed by an independent rating agency that assigns a rating based upon criteria such as results of operations, capital resources and minimum policyholders’ surplus requirements. Our family of property and casualty insurers has received a group rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). Within the group, all of our property and casualty insurers have an “A” (Excellent) rating, except one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable). Our life insurance subsidiary has received an “A-” (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best. According to A.M. Best, companies rated “A” and “A-” have “an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders.” An insurer’s solvency rating is one of the primary factors evaluated by those in the market to purchase insurance. A poor rating indicates that there is an increased likelihood that the insurer could become insolvent and therefore not able to fulfill its obligations under the insurance policies it issues. The level of an insurer’s solvency rating can affect its level of premium writings, the lines of business it can write and, for insurers that are also public registrants, the market value of its shares of stock. 7 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors in addition to those listed here. We have set forth additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Risks Relating to Our Business • The occurrence and severity of catastrophe losses are unpredictable and may adversely affect the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophic events, which can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, fires, explosions, earthquakes, tropical storms and terrorist acts. Property damage resulting from catastrophes is the greatest risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our business. We have exposure for catastrophe losses under both our commercial insurance policies and our personal insurance policies. In addition, our automobile and inland marine business exposes us to losses arising from floods and other perils. Because the occurrence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may vary significantly from year to year, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations. Catastrophes may also negatively affect our ability to write new business. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from future catastrophic events. • Our reserves for property and casualty insurance losses and costs related to settlement of property and casualty losses and our life reserves for future policy benefits may be inadequate, which would have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our reserves for claims and future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate, which may result in future charges to earnings and/or a downgrade of our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish property and casualty loss reserves based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. Regnier Consulting Group, our independent actuary, calculates reserves for our property and casualty insurance products based on many assumptions and estimates to validate the reasonableness of our claims reserves. Our property and casualty loss reserves are only estimates; we determine the amount of these loss reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and costs we will incur on existing insurance policies. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the ultimate amounts of benefits and claims that we will pay or the timing of payment of benefits and claims. The following factors may have a substantial impact on our future earnings: • The length of time between the actual occurrence of a claim and the report date of the claim. • The amounts of claims settlements and awards. • Changes in the cost of medical care, including the effect of inflation. • The cost of home/business repair, including the effect of inflation and the accessibility of labor and materials. • State regulatory requirements. • The judicial environment, including, but not limited to, changes in case law, the impact of jury awards and the interpretation of policy provisions. 8 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 Actual losses and loss settlement expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our loss reserves are insufficient, or if we believe our loss reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and loss settlement expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges may be material. Griffith, Ballard & Company, our independent actuary, calculates reserves for our life insurance products based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. • The cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance business may affect our financial performance. The financial results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. We expect these cycles to continue. Premium rates for property and casualty insurance are influenced by factors that are outside of our control, including market and competitive conditions and regulatory issues. Soft market conditions could require us to reduce premiums, limit premium increases, or discontinue offering one or more of our insurance products in one or more states, resulting in a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. Fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on the results of our operations and financial condition. • We are subject to interest rate fluctuations and declines in the value of investments held in our investment portfolio due to various market factors that could negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations and other market changes, to declines in value due to market valuations and to declines in credit quality related to individual investments held in our investment portfolio. Some of our products, principally fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” which is the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support our obligations under the contracts. In periods of increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace our invested assets with higher-yielding assets to the extent needed to fund the higher rates we must pay with respect to our interest-sensitive products to keep them competitive. Consequently, we may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability, or face a decline in sales and loss of existing contracts and related assets. In periods of declining interest rates, we have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding instruments than previously available. Moreover, borrowers may prepay fixed income securities, commercial mortgages, and mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested in order to borrow at lower market rates, exacerbating this risk. Because we are entitled to reset the interest rates on our annuities only at limited, pre established intervals and because many of our policies have guaranteed interest rates, our spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. Due to the reinvestment risk described above, a decline in market interest rates available on investments could also reduce our return from investments of capital that do not support particular policy obligations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The adverse effect on us from fluctuations in interest rates may be exacerbated because we currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, a large portion (91.3 percent at December 31, 2008) of our investment portfolio in fixed income securities, including our portfolio of trading securities. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates. We classify the majority (99.2 percent, at December 31, 2008) of our fixed income securities as available-for-sale. We report the value of those investments at their current fair value. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the valuation of our fixed income investments, which would affect our stockholders’ equity. Fluctuations in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals from our life insurance and annuity products. In periods of rising interest rates, policy loans, and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. These withdrawals and terminations may also require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses in the current period. 9 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 The fair value of securities in our investment portfolio may fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions or events relating to a particular issuer of securities. Changes in the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio could result in realized or unrealized investment losses, thereby affecting our stockholders’ equity. We are exposed to the chance that issuers of bonds that we hold will not be able to pay principal or interest when it is due. Credit defaults and impairments may cause write-downs in the value of the bonds we hold. Pervasive deterioration in the credit quality of issuers, changes in interest rate levels and changes in interest rate spreads between types of investments could significantly affect the value of our invested assets and our earnings. • Financial disruption or a prolonged economic downturn may materially and adversely affect our business. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. Moreover, many companies are experiencing reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital. In the event that these conditions persist or result in a prolonged economic downturn, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of recent financial events, we may face increased regulation. Many of the other risk factors discussed in this section identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, financial economic downturn. These include risks related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, emerging claims and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. • The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues and class actions on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and/or size of claims. Examples of these issues include: • Judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability. • An increase of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation regarding claim-handling and other practices. • An increase in the variety, number and size of claims relating to liability losses, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions. • Adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressure in medical cost and auto and home repair costs. In addition, we have been the target of a number of class action lawsuits arising from Hurricane Katrina relating to allegations of improper claims settlement practices, misrepresentations in the scope of coverage and other matters. It is difficult to predict both the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, and the impact, if any, they will have on our business and financial condition. However, rulings adverse to us in pending litigation arising from Hurricane Katrina would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, as well as on our results of operations. • We are exposed to credit risk in certain areas of our operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables; we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the amounts due from independent agents and brokers. 10 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 We are exposed to credit risk through our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our bonded principal will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g. a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk during a period of economic downturn. While we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to credit risk could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. • We are subject to comprehensive laws and regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the states in which we operate. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is and will continue to be critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of state regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following: • Required licensing. We, and our insurance company subsidiaries, operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to revoke an existing license or deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to continue to sell insurance or to enter or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired. • Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. When our loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may resist or delay our efforts to raise premium rates in the future, even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to premium rate increases. If premium rate increases we deem necessary are not approved, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. State regulatory authorities may even impose premium rate rollbacks or require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, affecting our profitability. If insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state will be substantially impaired. • Restrictions on cancellation, nonrenewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company’s ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. For example, the State of Louisiana has a law prohibiting the nonrenewal of homeowners policies written for longer than three years except under certain circumstances, such as for nonpayment of premium or fraud committed by the insured. • Risk-based capital and capital adequacy requirements. We and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate are subject to risk-based capital requirements (“RBC requirements”) that require us and our insurance company subsidiaries to report our results of risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. Any failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us or our subsidiaries and affiliate to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. • Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between us, our subsidiary insurance companies and our affiliate generally must be disclosed to, and in some cases approved by, state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. 11 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 • Required participation in guaranty funds and assigned risk pools. Certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations; or the insurer is required to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired premium rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. While these facilities are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, the exposure to assessments and our ability to recoup these assessments through adequate premium rate increases may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period, due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These state funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors. • Restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of investments. The various states in which we operate have certain restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of our investments. Generally speaking, these regulations require us to be conservative in the nature and quality of our investments and restrict our ability to invest in riskier, but often higher yield investments. These restrictions may make it more difficult for us to obtain our desired investment results. • Required methods of accounting. Statutory accounting principles imposed upon us by state insurance departments tend to be more conservative in nature than GAAP. • State and federal tax laws. Under current federal and state income tax law, our life insurance and annuity products receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give these products a competitive advantage over other noninsurance products. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products, making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. • Periodic financial and market conduct examinations. We are subject to periodic financial and market conduct examinations by the insurance departments in the various states in which we operate. Generally speaking, it is only states in which we have a company incorporated. Occasionally, however, we are examined by states in which we do not have a company incorporated. The costs of these examinations are borne by us and in any given year may contribute to our administrative expenses. Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These laws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely premium rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets and otherwise continue to operate our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face individual, group and class action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks could have a negative effect on our profitability. • Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in our facilities, networks or databases of ours or our vendors could result in loss or theft of data and information or systems’ interruptions that may expose us to liability and have an adverse impact on our business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of our data could harm our reputation and business. There can be no assurances that we will be able to implement security measures adequate to prevent every security breach. 12 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 • A reduction in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based on criteria established by the agencies. Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1994 (except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a runoff status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable)). Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. Our property and casualty companies are rated on a group basis. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and credit quality of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agency. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or could lead to increased borrowing costs in the future. Perceptions of our company by investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired. We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on our ratings by this agency. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and insureds to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If A.M. Best downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we will not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our sales and earnings would decrease. For example, many of our agencies and insureds have guidelines that require us to have an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” or higher. A reduction of our A.M. Best ratings below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to a majority of our insureds or other potential insureds with similar ratings requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade for our property and casualty insurers by A.M. Best below “A” would constitute an event of default under our credit facility. • Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely manner, or at all. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of the risk that we and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate underwrite. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions that are beyond our control. The availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase may affect the level of our business and profitability. Although we purposely work with several reinsurance intermediaries and reinsurers, we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable premium rates. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophic events within one policy year. Because our current catastrophe reinsurance program only allows for one automatic reinstatement at an additional reinstatement premium, we would be required to obtain a new catastrophe reinsurance policy to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Such coverage may be difficult to obtain, particularly if it is necessary to do so during hurricane season following the second catastrophe. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk will increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we will have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Our ability to collect reinsurance recoverables may be subject to uncertainty. Our losses must meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract. Reinsurers must also have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Particularly, following a major catastrophic event, our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. • Our geographic concentration in both our property and casualty insurance and life insurance segments ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions of certain states. The following states provided 55.5 percent of the direct premium volume for the property and casualty insurance segment in 2008: Texas (14.5 percent), Iowa (13.8 percent), Colorado (9.7 percent), Louisiana (8.8 percent) and Missouri (8.7 percent). The following states provided 76.0 percent of the direct statutory premium volume for the life insurance segment in 2008: Iowa (41.9 percent), Wisconsin (10.6 percent), Nebraska (8.0 percent), Minnesota (7.9 percent) and Illinois (7.6 percent). Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized natural perils, such as hurricanes or hailstorms, is increased in those areas where we have written a significant amount of property insurance policies. 13 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 • We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and reduce our revenue and profitability. The insurance industry is highly competitive. In our property and casualty insurance business and in our life insurance business, we compete, and will continue to compete, with many major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and smaller regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies, and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have far greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our premium revenue and our profitability could decline if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. We price our insurance products based on estimated profit margins, and we would not be able to significantly reduce our current estimated profit margins in the near future. Some of our competitors, however, are better capitalized than we are and may be able to withstand significant reductions in their profit margins. If our competitors decide to target our policyholder base by offering lower-priced insurance, we may not be able to respond competitively, which could reduce our revenue and our profitability. • Our business depends on the uninterrupted operations of our facilities, systems and business functions. Our business depends on our employees’ ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal policies and claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our facilities or a failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock • As an insurance company, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by state law. We are an insurance company domiciled in the State of Iowa and, as a result, we are subject to Iowa insurance laws restricting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity standards and laws that prohibit us from paying dividends except from the earned profits arising from our business. Our ability to pay dividends also depends upon the statutory capital and surplus levels and earnings of our subsidiary insurance companies and the ability of our subsidiary insurance companies to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our subsidiary insurance companies are restricted by state insurance laws similar to those laws that restrict our payment of dividends. As a result of these restrictions, at times we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock, or we may be required to seek prior approval from the applicable regulatory authority before we can pay any such dividends. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. • The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • Variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results. • Investor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and our company in particular. • Market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market. • Major catastrophic events. • Departure of our key personnel. 14 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 • Certain provisions of our organizational documents, as well as applicable insurance laws, could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management, prevent the sale of our company or prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the direction of our company, each of which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable laws governing corporations and insurance companies, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example: • Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our stockholders, our stockholders have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual stockholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors. • Our articles of incorporation limit rights of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. • Our articles of incorporation set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors at nine and the maximum at 15, and they require approval of holders of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to amend these provisions. • Our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all outstanding shares to approve any plan of merger, consolidation, or sale or exchange of all, or substantially all, of our assets. • Our Board of Directors may fill vacancies on the Board of Directors. • Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to issue “blank check” preferred shares having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. • Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10.0 percent or more of our common stock. • Section 490.624A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act authorizes the terms and conditions of stock rights or options issued by us to include restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer, or receipt of such rights or options by a person, or group of persons, owning or offering to acquire a specified number or percentage of the outstanding common shares or other securities of the corporation. Further, the insurance laws of Iowa and the states in which our subsidiary insurance companies are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring direct or indirect control of us or our insurance company subsidiaries, generally defined as owning or having the power to vote 10.0 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, without the prior written approval of state regulators. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and these state laws governing corporations and insurance companies, may discourage potential acquisition proposals. These provisions and state laws may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, in particular through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or our company’s management may be unsuccessful, and the existence of such provisions may adversely affect market prices for our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. • Our largest stockholder may take actions conflicting with other stockholders’ interests. Based upon the number of shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008, our largest stockholder will have a beneficial interest in, and the power to vote or control the disposition of, approximately 13.6 percent of our issued and outstanding common stock. He is in a position to strongly influence the outcome of substantially all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including mergers involving our company, sales of all, or substantially all, of our assets and the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation. Also, he may have interests different from, or adverse to, those of our other stockholders. 15 Table of Contents United Fire & Casualty Company Form 10-K | 2008 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 