Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, whether oral or written. We wish to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s present expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, these statements are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial that also may impair our business operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. We have separated the risks into the following categories: • Risks related to our failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC and the state of our internal controls over financial reporting; • Risks related to the pending SEC investigation and pending litigation arising out of our pending restatement, other pending government proceedings and other pending litigation; • Risks related to our business operations; • Risks related to the senior living industry; and • Risks related to our organization and structure. Risks Related to our Failure to Timely File Periodic Reports with the SEC and the State of our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Our failure to timely file our 2007 Form 10-K could jeopardize our listing on the New York Stock Exchange and could reduce the liquidity and lead to a drop in the price of our common stock if our shares are suspended from trading or delisted. To be considered timely filed, our 2007 Form 10-K was required to be filed on or before March 17, 2008. To date, our attention has been focused on completing our 2006 Form 10-K filing and we did not file our 2007 Form 10-K within the prescribed time period. As a result, we will continue to be considered a late filer under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, which is the exchange on which our common stock is listed, and will be subject to the procedures specified in Section 802.01E (SEC Annual Report Timely Filing Criteria) of the NYSE’s Listed Company Manual with regard to the filing of our 2007 Form 10-K. Section 802.01E provides, among other things, that the NYSE will monitor us and the filing status of the 2007 Form 10-K. If we have not filed our 2007 Form 10-K within six months of March 17, 2008, the NYSE may, in its sole discretion, allow our securities to be traded for up to an additional six-month trading period or, if the NYSE determines that such additional trading period is not appropriate, it will commence suspension and delisting procedures. The trading suspension or delisting of our shares would reduce the liquidity and could lead to a drop in the market price of our common stock. Our failure to timely prepare and file our financial reports precludes us from accessing the public markets to raise debt or equity capital and could result in the acceleration of amounts outstanding under our existing Bank Credit Facility, construction loans and permanent financing and our need to replace existing letters of credit. Because we are not current in our financial reporting requirements with the SEC, we are precluded from accessing the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could adversely affect our growth plans. 30 During 2006 and 2007, as a result of the delay in completing our restatement, Sunrise entered into several amendments to our Bank Credit Facility extending the time period for furnishing required quarterly and audited annual financial information to the lenders. In connection with these amendments, the interest rate applicable to the outstanding balance under the Bank Credit Facility was also increased effective July 1, 2007 from LIBOR plus 225 basis points to LIBOR plus 250 basis points. On January 31, February 29, and March 13, 2008, we entered into further amendments to the Bank Credit Facility. These amendments, among other things: • waived delivery by the Company of all 2006 quarterly financial statements and financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007; • modified to April 15, 2008 the delivery date for the 2006 audited financial statements; • modified to April 30, 2008 the delivery date for preliminary 2007 unaudited annual financial statements; • modified to May 31, 2008 the delivery date for the preliminary unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2008; • modified to July 31, 2008 the delivery date for the 2007 audited annual financial statements; • modified to August 20, 2008 the delivery date for the unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2008; and • modified to September 10, 2008 the delivery date for the unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending June 30, 2008. Pursuant to the January 31, 2008 amendment, effective February 20, 2008, the aggregate amount outstanding under the Bank Credit Facility may not exceed $160 million until such time as the 2006 and 2007 annual financial statements are furnished to the lenders, at which time the maximum amount permitted to be outstanding will again be $250 million. The Company will continue to owe and pay fees on the unused amount available under the Bank Credit Facility as if the maximum outstanding amount were $250 million. In addition, effective as of February 1, 2008 until the end of the interest period in which the administrative agent acknowledges receipt of the 2006 and 2007 annual financial statements, the LIBOR rate loans margin is 275 basis points and the base rate loan margin is 125 basis points. As of February 29, 2008, the availability for additional borrowings under the Bank Credit Facility is approximately $23.6 million. In the event we are unable to furnish the lenders with all of the financial information required under the amended Bank Credit Facility by the new delivery dates, the lenders under the Bank Credit Facility could, among other things, agree to a further extension of the delivery dates for the financial information, exercise their rights to accelerate the payment of all amounts then outstanding under the credit agreement and require us to replace or provide cash collateral for the outstanding letters of credit, or pursue further modifications with respect to the Bank Credit Facility. In connection with the March 13, 2008 amendment, the Company, Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Investments, Inc., Sunrise Development Inc. and Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc., each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (collectively, the “Loan Parties”), executed and delivered a security agreement to the administrative agent for the benefit of the lenders under the Bank Credit Facility. Pursuant to the security agreement, among other things, the Loan Parties granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a security interest in all accounts and contract rights, general intangibles and notes, notes receivable and similar instruments owned or acquired by the Loan Parties, as well as proceeds (cash and non-cash) and products thereof, as security for the payment of obligations under the Bank Credit Facility arrangements. Additionally, Sunrise is obligated to provide annual audited financial statements and quarterly unaudited financial statements to various financial institutions that have made construction loans or provided permanent financing (a) to entities directly or indirectly owned by Sunrise that own Sunrise’s consolidated portfolio of senior living communities and (b) to venture entities that own senior living communities managed by Sunrise and in which Sunrise holds a minority equity interest, pursuant to the terms of the credit facilities with respect to the loans to such entities or pursuant to documents ancillary to such credit facilities (e.g., operating deficit guarantees, etc.). In all 31 such instances, the construction loans or permanent financing provided by financial institutions is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on the financed community. The failure to provide annual audited and quarterly unaudited financial statements of Sunrise in accordance with the obligations of the relevant credit facilities or ancillary documents could be an event of default under such documents, and could allow the financial institutions who have extended credit pursuant to such documents to seek the remedies provided for in such documents. In the instances in which Sunrise has guaranteed the repayment of the principal amount of the credit extended by these financial institutions, Sunrise could be required to repay the loan. In such cases, Sunrise would incur a loss if the principal amount of the loan, plus accrued interest, exceeds the value of the community. Also, in certain instances, Sunrise is obligated to provide audited financial statements annually to the landlords of certain properties leased by subsidiaries of Sunrise. The failure to provide audited financial statements of Sunrise in accordance with the obligations of the leases or ancillary documents thereto could be an event of default under such documents, and could allow the landlords to seek the remedies provided for in such documents. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and expect to incur substantial additional costs to address these control deficiencies and in connection with our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to include a report with each Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Form 10-K, our management has conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and has identified a number of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. A detailed description of our material weaknesses is provided in Item 9A of this annual report. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. These material weaknesses also previously caused significant errors that led to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for fiscal periods prior to our year ended December 31, 2006. Because we have not yet completed implementation of all of our planned remediation efforts, our 2007 Form 10-K, when filed, is expected to also indicate that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs with respect to our efforts to address the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our inability to remedy these identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, could, among other things: cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner; result in the need to restate financial results for prior periods; prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud; or require us to incur further additional costs or divert management resources. Outstanding comments from past SEC staff review and any additional comments from future SEC staff review may require that we amend our periodic reports filed with the SEC, which could lead to significant changes in our past and current disclosure. On December 28, 2005, we received correspondence from the staff of the SEC relating to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. We have subsequently engaged in communications and correspondence with the SEC staff, and as of the date of this filing, we have outstanding unresolved comments from the SEC staff with respect to disclosure contained in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. We have modified the disclosure in this Form 10-K in an effort to reflect all of the SEC staff’s prior comments. We understand that the SEC staff is waiting to resolve the outstanding comments until after we have filed this Form 10-K. As a result, we may receive additional comments from the SEC staff relating to our responses to the prior staff comments, new matters related to this Form 10-K or other periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Such comments may require that we amend or supplement, possibly 32 significantly, the disclosures in this Form 10-K, including our restated financial statements included herein, or other periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Risks Related to the Pending SEC Investigation and Pending Litigation Arising Out of our Pending Restatement, Other Pending Government Proceedings and Other Pending Litigation The SEC’s formal investigation and pending putative securities class action and derivative litigation have resulted in significant costs and expenses, diverted resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As further described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, on May 25, 2007, we were advised by the staff of the SEC that the SEC had commenced a formal investigation. As also further described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, several lawsuits, including two putative shareholder class action complaints (that have since been consolidated into one action) and three putative derivative complaints (that have also been consolidated into one action) have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors arising out of our announcement of our intent to restate our previously issued financial statements and related matters. An additional putative derivative complaint has also been filed alleging breach of fiduciary duty by the named defendants arising out of the grant of certain stock options that are also the subject of the complaints described above. We have incurred significant professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC investigation and in defending against the lawsuits. We expect to continue to incur significant professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC investigation and in defending against these lawsuits. In addition, our management, Board of Directors and employees have expended a substantial amount of time on the SEC formal investigation and these other matters, diverting a significant amount of resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, if the SEC were to conclude that enforcement action is appropriate, we could be required to pay large civil penalties and fines. The SEC also could impose other sanctions against us or certain of our current and former directors and officers. In addition, if we do not prevail in one or more of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in other litigation matters that will continue to divert our resources and attention, and could result in substantial monetary damages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we do not prevail. As described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, in addition to the putative shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits, we are currently a defendant in several other lawsuits. Four former employees of Trinity filed a lawsuit on behalf of the United States government, as permitted under the “qui tam” provisions of the Federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), against us, Trinity and KRG Capital LLC (presumably an affiliate of some of the stockholders from whom we purchased Trinity) arising out of allegations that Trinity submitted false claims for Medicare billings. The lawsuit asserts the total loss sustained by the United States as a result of such alleged false claims was $75.0 million to $100.0 million. In addition, in September 2007, our former CFO filed a lawsuit against us related to the termination of his employment for cause, asserting that he was terminated by us in retaliation of his purportedly uncovering and seeking to address accounting irregularities and that, notwithstanding his termination, he is entitled to receive certain equity compensation under the terms of certain equity awards made to him. His complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages of up to $13.4 million. If we do not prevail in one or more of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Trinity OIG investigation and IRS audit may result in substantial fines and penalties, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As more fully described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, in January 2007, Trinity received a subpoena from the Phoenix field office of the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) requesting certain information regarding Trinity’s operations in three locations for the period between January 1, 2000 through June 30, 2006, a period that was prior to the Company’s acquisition of 33 Trinity. We have been advised that the subpoena was issued in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the U.S. Department of Justice and the civil division of the U.S. Attorney’s office in Arizona. The subpoena indicates that the OIG is investigating possible improper Medicare billing under the FCA. On February 13, 2008, Trinity received a subpoena from the Los Angeles regional office of the OIG requesting information regarding Trinity operations in 19 locations for the period between December 1, 1998 and February 12, 2008. This subpoena relates to the ongoing investigation being conducted by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the U.S. Department of Justice and the civil division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Arizona. In addition, we have been notified by the United States Internal Revenue Service that it will audit our 2005 and 2006 corporate tax returns as well as our employment tax returns for 2004, 2005 and 2006. The OIG investigation may result in Medicare reimbursements and payments of penalties and fines. The IRS audit may result in payments of penalties, fines and unpaid taxes and interest. Any such reimbursements and payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements between us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors and officers with respect to the pending SEC investigation and pending litigation. These indemnifiable obligations may not be reimbursable under our directors and officers’ liability insurance. In connection with some of the matters discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we have advanced legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. We purchase directors and officers liability insurance from insurers based on published ratings by recognized rating agencies, advice from national insurance brokers and consultants and other industry-related insurance information sources. Our directors and officers liability insurance covers events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. The insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Under our directors and officers liability insurance policy, we are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit. In addition, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may not result in any sale transaction. In July 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had decided to explore strategic alternatives intended to enhance shareholder value, including a possible sale of the Company. A committee of non-management directors, originally established in April 2007 to explore strategic alternatives, engaged Citigroup Global Markets Inc. to act as its financial advisor. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any sale transaction. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations We may be unable to manage effectively our growth and expansion, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. At December 31, 2006, we operated 440 communities, including 412 communities in the United States, 11 communities in Canada, 12 communities in the United Kingdom and five communities in Germany, with a total resident capacity of approximately 52,000. At December 31, 2007, we operated 457 communities, including 420 communities in the United States, 12 communities in Canada, 17 communities in the United Kingdom and eight communities in Germany, with a total resident capacity of approximately 54,000. We currently expect that the number of our managed communities will increase substantially as we pursue our future growth plans. We plan to grow primarily through the development of new senior living communities and entry into new management contracts for senior living communities in top U.S. and international major metropolitan markets. At December 31, 34 2006, we had entered into contracts to purchase or lease 35 additional development sites. At December 31, 2006, we had 39 communities under construction with a resident capacity of approximately 5,600 residents. At December 31, 2007, we had entered into contracts to purchase or lease 107 additional development sites. In the ordinary course of our business, we evaluate new sites and opportunities for further growth on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2007, we had 45 communities under construction, with capacity for approximately 5,800 residents. As we continue to grow our business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems or to continue to be able to attract, train, motivate, manage and retain senior management and other key employees to successfully integrate new communities into our existing business without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Due to the dependency of our revenues on private pay sources, events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our monthly resident fees or entrance fees (including downturns in housing markets or the economy) could cause our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations to decline. Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our communities are located typically can afford to pay our monthly resident fees. Economic downturns or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees. In addition, downturns in the housing markets, such as the one we have recently experienced, could adversely affect the ability (or perceived ability) of seniors to afford our resident fees as our customers frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of our fees. If we are unable to retain and/or attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services, our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations could decline. In addition, if the recent volatility in the housing market continues for a protracted period, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Any delays we experience in developing new communities could impede our growth and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our growth objectives include the development of a significant number of new senior living communities, both domestically and internationally. During 2006, we opened 30 new communities with a capacity for more than 3,300 and we had 39 communities under construction with a resident capacity of approximately 5,600 residents. During 2007, we opened 22 new communities with a capacity for an additional 2,600 residents and we expect to continue to develop new communities at the same rate in the future. At December 31, 2007, we had 45 communities under construction with a resident capacity of approximately 5,800 residents and we had entered into contracts to purchase or lease 107 additional development sites. In the ordinary course of our business, we evaluate new sites and opportunities for further growth on an ongoing basis. Our ability to successfully achieve these development plans will depend upon a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • difficulties or delays in obtaining zoning, land use, building, occupancy, licensing and other required governmental permits for the construction of new communities; • failure to complete construction of new communities on budget and on schedule; • failure of third-party contractors and subcontractors to perform under their contracts; • shortages of labor or materials that could delay projects or make them more expensive; • adverse weather conditions or acts of God that could delay construction projects; • difficulties in developing new types of senior living products with which we have less experience; • difficulties in finding suitable sites for future development activities at acceptable prices; • increased costs resulting from changes in general economic conditions or increases in the costs of materials; and 35 • increased costs as a result of addressing changes in laws and regulations or how existing laws and regulations are applied. We cannot give any assurance that we will undertake or complete all of our development plans, that we will not experience delays in completing communities under construction or in development, or that we will be able to identify suitable sites at acceptable prices for future development activities. In addition, we may incur substantial costs prior to achieving stabilized occupancy for each such project and cannot assure you that these costs will not be greater than we anticipated. If we fail to achieve our development plans, our growth could slow or we may not meet our growth objectives, which would adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. Our failure to secure additional financing to fund our development and acquisition activities could slow our growth and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We will need to obtain additional financial resources to fund our development and construction activities either on our balance sheet or in ventures with capital partners. We estimate that it will cost approximately $0.9 billion to complete the communities we had under construction as of December 31, 2007, including those owned in ventures with capital partners. As of December 31, 2006, we had entered into contracts to purchase 30 development sites for a total contracted purchase price of $138 million and had also entered into contracts to lease five additional development sites. As of December 31, 2007, we had entered into contracts to purchase 101 additional development sites, for a total contracted purchase price of approximately $400 million, and had also entered into contracts to lease six additional development sites. Generally, our land purchase commitments are terminable if we are unable to obtain zoning approval. We estimate that existing construction loan financing commitments and existing credit facilities, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund communities under construction as of December 31, 2007. We estimate that it will cost us or the applicable development ventures approximately $1.0 to $1.5 billion in debt and equity to develop the remaining communities in our 2008 development plan. Additional financing will be required to complete the development and construction of these sites and to refinance existing indebtedness. We are regularly in negotiations with lenders and venture partners to secure the financing required to fund development activities. We do not have firm commitments to cover our entire 2008 development plan, and while we expect that our cash generated from operations, together with borrowings under existing credit facilities and financing expected to be available, will be sufficient to fund the development sites for these additional senior living communities, no assurance can be made that we will be able to obtain this financing. We expect from time to time to seek additional funding through public or private financing sources, including equity or debt financing. However, financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are not able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, we may have to delay or eliminate all or some of our development projects, or forego acquisition opportunities, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because we are not current in our obligation to file periodic reports with the SEC, we currently are not eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, which prevents us from accessing the public capital markets. In addition, certain of our outstanding indebtedness restricts our ability to incur additional debt, among other things. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain them on terms acceptable to us, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Further, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity securities (to the extent we are able to do so), the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be diluted. Any newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that could adversely affect those operations and thus our profitability and operating results. Our future expansion may involve additional expansion in existing international markets and possible expansion into new international markets. On December 31, 2006, we operated 11 communities in Canada, 12 communities in the United Kingdom and five communities in Germany, respectively, with a total resident capacity of 1,074, 1,156 and 518, respectively. On December 31, 2007, we operated 12 communities in Canada, 17 communities in the United Kingdom and eight communities in Germany, respectively, with a total resident 36 capacity of 1,330, 1,642 and 841 respectively. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks including: exposure to local economic conditions; varying laws relating to, among other things, employment and employment termination; changes in foreign regulatory requirements; restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures including value-added taxes. In addition, we have limited experience developing and operating senior living facilities in international markets. As described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” during 2006, we recorded pre-tax charges of $50 million for operating deficit guarantees related to our venture in Germany due to slower than expected lease-up trends. If we are not successful in operating in international markets, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our expansion into new offerings may not be successful and could adversely impact our growth. Our future expansion is expected to involve new senior living models beyond the basic Sunrise mansion model, including condominiums, rental full service, cottages and other models, as well as new service offerings. We have limited experience in developing or operating condominium communities, and we may not be successful in integrating this or other new models into our current business structure. In addition, development and operation of additional models may involve certain risks not present with our current development activities. For example, condominium developments may not achieve targeted sales, or problems with construction or local building codes may delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, or an over supply of condominiums in a given market may cause a decrease in the prices at which we expect to sell condominium properties. We began to develop senior living condominium projects in 2004. In 2006, we sold a majority interest in a combined condominium and assisted living venture to third parties. In conjunction with the development agreement for the condominium and assisting living projects, we agreed to be responsible for actual project costs in excess of budgeted project costs of more than $10 million (subject to certain limited exceptions). Project overruns to be paid by us are approximately $45 million. During 2006, we recorded a loss of approximately $17.2 million due to this commitment. During 2007, we expect to record an additional loss of approximately $7 million due to this increase in the budgeted project costs. Through February 29, 2008, we have paid approximately $11 million in cost overruns. No assurance can be given that additional pre-tax charges will not be required in subsequent periods with respect to this condominium venture. In 2007, we decided to discontinue development of four senior living condominium projects due to adverse economic conditions. We are currently evaluating other options for the projects, including the possible sale of the land or the development of other Sunrise products. As a result, we expect to record pre-tax charges totaling approximately $21 million to write off capitalized development costs for these projects in 2007. In the first quarter of 2008, we suspended development of all but one of our condominium projects and as a result, we expect to record pre-tax changes totaling approximately $22.1 million in the first quarter of 2008. Our failure to successfully implement development of new senior living models into our business operations and lack of market acceptance of our new service offerings could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our failure to attract partners for developing senior living communities in the future could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations, and harm our ability to finance the construction of new communities. As part of our normal operations, we develop senior living communities with third-party partners and enter into long-term management contracts to manage these communities. This strategy of developing senior living communities with partners has enabled us to reduce our debt, re-deploy our capital into new development projects, finance development and expand our portfolio of managed communities. The development of new communities with third-party partners is subject to various market conditions and the attractiveness of other investment opportunities available to our partners, and we cannot give any assurance that we can continue to develop communities with such partners at or near the pace we have maintained in the past. If we are unable to continue to 37 implement our strategy of developing senior living communities with third-party partners on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not meet our objectives related to development and financial results and our ability to finance the construction of new communities could be materially adversely affected. Early termination or non-renewal of our management agreements could cause a loss in revenues. We operate senior living communities for third parties and unconsolidated ventures pursuant to management services agreements. At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, approximately 85% and 86%, respectively, of our communities under management were managed for third parties or unconsolidated ventures. The term of our third-party management services agreements generally ranges from five to 30 years. In most cases, either party to the agreements may terminate upon the occurrence of an event of default caused by the other party. In addition, in some cases, subject to our rights to cure deficiencies, community owners may terminate us as manager if any licenses or certificates necessary for operation are revoked, if there is a change in control of Sunrise or if we do not maintain a minimum stabilized occupancy level in the community. With respect to communities held in ventures, in some cases, the management agreement can be terminated in connection with the sale by the venture partner of its interest in the venture or the sale of properties by the venture. Also, in some instances, a community owner may terminate the management agreement relating to a particular community if we are in default under other management agreements relating to other communities owned by the same owner or its affiliates. In some of our agreements, as was the case in 2006 when 24 management agreements were bought out or terminated, the community owner may terminate the management agreement for any reason or no reason provided it pays the termination fee specified in the agreement. Early termination of our management agreements or non-renewal or renewal on less-favorable terms could cause a loss in revenues and could negatively impact earnings. Ownership of the communities we manage is heavily concentrated with three of our business partners. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, approximately 109 of our managed communities were owned by HCP. In addition, in April 2007, Ventas, Inc. acquired Sunrise REIT. As of December 31, 2007, Ventas was the majority owner of 79 of the communities which we managed. Another one of our privately owned capital partners is the majority owner of another 50 communities which we manage. The communities that we manage for these business partners are generally subject to long-term management agreements (up to 30 years) as well as other agreements related to development, income support and other guarantee arrangements. This sizeable concentration could give these partners significant influence over our operating strategies and could therefore heighten the business risks disclosed above. A significant concentration might also make us more susceptible to an adverse impact from the financial distress that might be experienced by a partner. Any inability or unwillingness by any of these business partners to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The operations of Sunrise and the operations of entities that we have or may acquire may not be integrated successfully or the intended benefits of such transactions may not be realized or may be subject to unforeseen liabilities, any of which could have a negative impact on our revenues, expenses and operating results. Our acquisitions of Trinity, Aston Gardens and three San Francisco Bay Area continuing care retirement communities in 2006, as well as our acquisitions in 2005 of Greystone and The Fountains, pose risks for our ongoing operations, including the risks that: • the acquired portfolios or business operations may not perform as well as we anticipate due to various factors, including disruptions caused by the integration of operations with us and changes in macro-economic conditions; • the diversion of management attention to the integration of the operations of the acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the continued operation and expansion of our existing business; • we may not effectively integrate the operations of these acquisitions; • we may experience difficulties and incur greater than anticipated expenses related to the assimilation and retention of the employees from these acquisitions; and 38 • following any one of these acquisitions, we may not achieve any expected cost savings and operating efficiencies in connection with such acquisition, such as the elimination of redundant administrative costs and community management costs. In addition, our acquisition of other entities in the ordinary course of business may pose risks to us similar to those discussed above. If we fail to successfully integrate future acquisitions and/or fail to realize the intended benefits of those transactions, these failures could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results and the market price of our common stock could decline from its market price at the time of completion of such acquisitions. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs, impairment of acquired goodwill or amortization costs for other intangible assets. Similarly, we could encounter unforeseen difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquisition, including contingent or other unexpected liabilities. As described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we recorded $22.4 million in pre-tax charges in 2006 related to shortfall guarantees for The Fountains. With respect to the goodwill related to Trinity, we expect to record an impairment loss of approximately $50 million in 2007. Our current and future investments in ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our venture partners. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, we had a minority equity interest in ventures that we do not control which owned 183 and 201 senior living communities, respectively. These ventures involve risks not present with respect to our consolidated communities or the communities that we manage only. These risks include: • we share decision-making authority with our venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the venture and the community, such as the sale of the community or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the community and the approval of the annual operating and capital budgets, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our venture partners; • prior consent of our venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interest in the venture; • our venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a community or increase our financial commitment to the venture; • our venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the community that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the community; • disputes may develop with our venture partners over decisions affecting the community or the venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business, and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the community such as delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved; and • we may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our venture partners with respect to our venture investments. The refinancing or sale of communities held in ventures may not result in future distributions to us. In the future, we expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale or refinancing of communities held in ventures. When the majority equity partner in one of our ventures sells its equity interest to a third party, the venture frequently refinances its senior debt and distributes the net proceeds to the equity partners. Distributions received by Sunrise are first recorded as a reduction of Sunrise’s investment. Next, the Company records a liability for any contractual or implied future financial support to the venture including through our role as a general partner. Any remaining distributions are recorded as Sunrise’s share of earnings on our consolidated statement of income. We refer to these transactions as “recapitalizations.” Additionally, most of our ventures are 39 structured to provide a distribution to us upon the sale of the communities in the ventures. None of the agreements governing our venture arrangements require refinancings of debt in connection with the sale of equity interests by our venture partners. If the venture does not refinance senior debt or the property has not appreciated we would not receive any distributions in connection with the sale of equity interests by our venture partners. In addition, there can be no assurance that future “recapitalizations” or asset sales will result in distributions to us. In addition, if market conditions deteriorate or our communities experience poor performance, the amounts distributed to us upon “recapitalizations” or assets sales could be materially reduced or we may not receive distributions in some cases. Liability claims against us in excess of insurance limits could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The senior living business entails an inherent risk of liability. In recent years, we, as well as other participants in our industry, have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging negligence or similar claims. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and significant legal costs. We maintain liability insurance policies in amounts we believe are adequate based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. We purchase insurance for property, casualty and other risks from insurers based on published ratings by recognized rating agencies, advice from national insurance brokers and consultants and other industry-recognized insurance information sources. Moreover, certain insurance policies cover events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. Any of these insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Certain liability risks, including general and professional liability, workers’ compensation and automobile liability, and employment practices liability are insured in insurance policies with affiliated (i.e., wholly-owned captive insurance companies) and unaffiliated insurance companies. We are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit determined by individual policies and subject to aggregate limits in certain prior policy periods. Liabilities within these self-insured limits are estimated annually by independent actuaries and reviewed monthly by us, including a provision for the estimate of the costs of incurred but not reported claims. In the event these estimates are inadequate, we may have to fund the shortfall and our operating results could be negatively impacted. Claims may arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance policies or that are not covered by our insurance policies. If a successful claim is made against us and it is not covered by our insurance or exceeds the policy limits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our obligations to pay the cost of claims within our self-insured limits include the cost of claims that arise today but are reported in the future. We estimate an amount to reserve for these future claims. In the event these estimates are inadequate, we may have to fund the shortfall and our operating results could be negatively affected. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract residents or expand our business and could require our management to devote time to matters unrelated to the operation of our business. We also have to renew our policies periodically and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at acceptable levels. We have established a liability for outstanding losses and expenses at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2006, but the liability may ultimately be settled for a greater or lesser amount. Any subsequent changes are recorded in the period in which they are determined and will be shared with the communities participating in the insurance programs. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are required to perform under various financial guarantees or support arrangements that we have entered into as part of our operating strategy. As part of our normal operations, we provide construction completion guarantees, debt guarantees, operating deficit guarantees/credit facilities, credit support arrangements and liquidity support agreements to some of our ventures, lenders to the venture, or third party owners. In addition, we may also undertake certain financing obligations in connection with acquisitions. The terms of some of these obligations do not include a limitation on the maximum potential future payments. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of construction completion guarantees, 40 debt guarantees, operating deficit guarantees/credit facilities, credit support arrangements and liquidity support agreements provided to certain of our unconsolidated ventures or third-party owners and certain financing obligations undertaken in connection with acquisitions. If we are required to fund or perform under these arrangements, the amounts funded either become loans to the venture, or are recorded as a reduction in revenue or as an expense. If we are required to fund any amounts related to these arrangements, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to ultimately recover funded amounts. As described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” during 2006, we recorded pre-tax charges of $50 million for operating deficit guarantees related to our venture in Germany due to slower than expected lease-up trends. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to cover required interest, principal and operating lease payments could result in defaults of the related debt or operating leases. At December 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of $190.6 million, including $50.0 million outstanding on our Bank Credit Facility. At December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of $253.7 million, including $100.0 million outstanding on our Bank Credit Facility. We intend to continue financing our communities through mortgage financing and possibly operating leases or other types of financing, including lines of credit. We cannot give any assurance that we or our ventures will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to cover required interest, principal and operating lease payments. Any payment or other default could cause the lender to foreclose upon the facilities securing the indebtedness or, in the case of an operating lease, could terminate the lease, with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. In some cases, the indebtedness is secured by the community and a pledge of our interests in the community. In the event of a default, the lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by foreclosing on the pledge instead, thus accelerating the lender’s acquisition of the community. Further, because our mortgages generally contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions, a payment or other default by us could affect a significant number of communities. Our failure to comply with financial obligations contained in debt instruments could result in the acceleration of the debt extended pursuant to such debt instruments, trigger other rights and restrict our operating and acquisition activity, and in the case of ventures, may cause acceleration of the venture’s debt repayment obligations and any correlated Sunrise guarantee obligations. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions applicable to us in our debt instruments, including provisions that: • require us to meet certain financial tests. For example, our Bank Credit Facility requires us not to exceed certain leverage ratios, to maintain certain fixed-charges coverage ratios and have a consolidated net worth of at least $450 million as adjusted each quarter and to meet other financial ratios; • require consent for a change in control; and • restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of all or substantially all assets, or engage in mergers or other business combinations in which we are not the surviving entity without lender consent. These covenants could reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations by limiting our ability to borrow money and may create a risk of default on our debt if we cannot continue to satisfy these covenants. If we default under our debt instruments, the debt extended pursuant to such debt instruments could become due and payable prior to its stated due date. We cannot give any assurance that we could pay this debt if it became due. Further, our Bank Credit Facility contains a cross-default provision pursuant to which a default on other indebtedness by us or by any of our consolidated subsidiaries under the Bank Credit Facility could result in the ability of the lenders to declare a default under and accelerate the indebtedness due under the Bank Credit Facility. There are also various financial covenants, financial statement delivery requirements, and other restrictions applicable to us in the debt instruments relating to certain of our ventures. Failure to meet these covenants may trigger acceleration of the ventures’ debt repayment obligations and any correlated Sunrise guarantee obligations or give rise any of the other remedies provided for in such debt instruments. Additionally, certain of our venture agreements provide that an event of default under the venture’s debt instruments that is caused by Sunrise may also 41 be considered an event of default by Sunrise under the venture agreement, giving our venture partner the right to pursue the remedies provided for in the venture agreement, potentially including a termination and winding up of the venture. Certain of our management agreements, both with venture entities and with entities owned by third parties, provide that an event of default under the debt instruments applicable to the venture entities or the entities owned by third parties that is caused by Sunrise may also be considered an event of default by Sunrise under the relevant management agreement, giving the non-Sunrise party to the management agreement the right to pursue the remedies provided for in the management agreement, potentially including termination of the management agreement. Interest rate increases could adversely affect our earnings because a portion of our total debt is floating rate debt. At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, we had approximately $134.8 million and $244.6 million, respectively, of floating-rate debt at a weighted average interest rate of 6.78% and 6.72%, respectively. Debt incurred in the future also may bear interest at floating rates. Therefore, increases in prevailing interest rates could increase our interest payment obligations, which would negatively impact earnings. For example, a one-percent increase in interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by approximately $1.3 million and $2.4 million based on the amount of floating-rate debt at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Historically, our primary exposure to currency exchange rates has been related to non-U.S. dollar denominated intercompany advances and loans to ventures. As we increase our international presence through development and operations, we may transact additional business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we would be subject to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements. To date, we have not hedged against foreign currency fluctuations; however, we may pursue hedging alternatives in the future. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. At December 31, 2006, we had net U.S. dollar equivalent assets/(liabilities) of $(19.9) million, $23.9 million and $8.9 million in Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, respectively. We also had a net U.S. dollar equivalent liability of $50 million related to expected fundings under guarantees in Euros. Termination of resident agreements and vacancies in communities could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living communities generally require written resident agreements with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident agreements signed by us generally allow residents to terminate their agreement on 30 days’ notice. Thus, we cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with specified leasing periods of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, the advanced age of our average residents means that the resident turnover rate in our senior living communities may be difficult to predict. The discovery of environmental problems at any of the communities we own or operate could result in substantial costs to us, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of medical waste generated at our facilities; identification and removal of the presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings; the presence of other substances in the indoor environment, including mold; and protection of the environment and natural resources in connection with development or construction of our communities. 42 Some of our facilities generate infectious or other hazardous medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. Each of our facilities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste, but the use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to clean-up disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, we would face increased expenditures both in terms of fines and remediation of the underlying problem(s), potential litigation relating to exposure to such materials, and potential decrease in value to our business and in the value of our underlying assets, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings, our financial condition and our ability to pursue our growth strategy. In addition, we are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local environmental regulation and legislation. Changes in the environmental regulatory framework could result in significant increased costs related to complying with such new regulations and result in a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, because environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities, further increasing our cost of operations. Our hospice revenue is dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. If there are changes in the rates or methods governing these payments for our services, our net patient service revenue and profits could materially decline. Our hospice revenues are highly dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid, paid primarily on a per diem basis, from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because we generally receive fixed payments for our hospice care services based on the level of care provided to our hospice patients, we are at risk for the cost of services provided to our hospice patients. Reductions or changes in Medicare or Medicaid funding could significantly affect the results of our hospice operations. Reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments could cause our net hospice revenue and profits to materially decline. Our hospice business is subject to a Medicare cap amount which is calculated by Medicare. Our hospice revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Overall payments made by Medicare to our hospice business are subject to a cap amount calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of the hospice cap period. The hospice cap period runs from November 1st of each year through October 31st of the following year. Total Medicare payments received by each of the Medicare-certified programs during this period are compared to the cap amount for this period. Payments in excess of the cap amount must be returned by us to Medicare. The cap amount is calculated by multiplying the number of beneficiaries electing hospice care during the period by a statutory Medicare cap amount that is indexed for inflation. The Medicare cap amount is reduced proportionately for Medicare patients who transferred into or out of our hospice programs and either received or will received hospice services from another hospice provider. The hospice cap amount is computed on a program-by-program basis. Our hospice revenue for 2006 and 2007 was reduced by approximately $2.7 million and $5.6 million, respectively, as a result of our hospice programs exceeding the Medicare cap. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors relating to a given hospice program, including number of admissions, average length of stay, mix in level of care and Medicare patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our revenue and profitability may be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. We cannot assure you that additional hospice programs will not exceed the cap amount in the future or that our estimate of the Medicare cap contractual adjustment will not materially differ from the actual Medicare cap amount. If any of our hospice programs fail to comply with the Medicare conditions of participation, that program could be terminated from the Medicare program, thereby adversely affecting our net patient service revenue and profitability. Each of our hospice programs must comply with the extensive conditions of participation of the Medicare hospice benefit. If any of our hospice programs fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that 43 program may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that hospice program then fails to institute a plan of correction and correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that program could be terminated from receiving Medicare payments. For example, under the Medicare hospice program, each of our hospice programs must demonstrate that volunteers provide administrative and direct patient care services in an amount equal to at least 5% of the total patient care hours provided by our employees and contract staff at the hospice program. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of volunteers at one of our hospice programs to meet this requirement, that program could be terminated from the Medicare benefit if the program fails to address the deficiency within the applicable correction period. Any termination of one or more of our hospice programs from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the volunteer or other conditions of participation could adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability and financial condition. Risks Related to the Senior Living Industry Competition in our industry is high and may increase, which could impede our growth and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. The senior living industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other companies that provide similar senior living alternatives, such as home health care agencies, community-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other senior living providers. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent and assisted living segments of the senior living industry are not as substantial as in the skilled nursing segment of the senior living industry. In pursuing our growth strategies, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience competition in our efforts to develop and operate senior living communities. We expect that there will be competition from existing competitors and new market entrants, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. Consequently, we may encounter competition that could limit our ability to attract new residents, increase resident fee rates, attract and retain capital partners for our ventures or expand our development activities or our business in general, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Similarly, overbuilding in any of the markets in which we operate could cause us to experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. Increased competition for residents could also require us to undertake unbudgeted capital improvements or to lower our rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on attracting and retaining skilled personnel, and increased competition for or a shortage of skilled personnel could increase our staffing and labor costs, which we may not be able to offset by increasing the rates we charge to our residents. We compete with various health care services providers, including other senior living providers, in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of each community. Turnover rates and the magnitude of the shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel varies substantially from community to community. Increased competition for or a shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates we charge to our residents or our management fees. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business, including our ability to implement our growth strategy, and operating results could be harmed. The need to comply with government regulation of senior living communities may increase our costs of doing business and increase our operating costs. Senior living communities are generally subject to regulation and licensing by federal, state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. Although requirements vary from state to state and community to community, in general, these requirements may include or address: • personnel education, training, and records; • administration and supervision of medication; • the provision of limited nursing services; 44 • admission and discharge criteria; • documentation, reporting and disclosure requirements; • staffing requirements; • monitoring of resident wellness; • physical plant specifications; • furnishing of resident units; • food and housekeeping services; • emergency evacuation plans; and • resident rights and responsibilities. In several of the states in which we operate or intend to operate, laws may require a certificate of need before a senior living community can be opened. In most states, senior living communities are also subject to state or local building codes, fire codes, and food service licensing or certification requirements. Communities licensed to provide skilled nursing services generally provide significantly higher levels of resident assistance. Communities that are licensed, or will be licensed, to provide skilled nursing services may participate in federal health care programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, some licensed assisted living communities may participate in state Medicaid-waiver programs. Such communities must meet certain federal and/or state requirements regarding their operations, including requirements related to physical environment, resident rights, and the provision of health services. Communities that participate in federal health care programs are entitled to receive reimbursement from such programs for care furnished to program beneficiaries and recipients. Senior living communities that include assisted living facilities, nursing facilities, or home health care agencies are subject to periodic surveys or inspections by governmental authorities to assess and assure compliance with regulatory requirements. Such unannounced surveys may occur annually or bi-annually, or can occur following a state’s receipt of a complaint about the community. As a result of any such inspection, authorities may allege that the senior living community has not complied with all applicable regulatory requirements. Typically, senior living communities then have the opportunity to correct alleged deficiencies by implementing a plan of correction. In other cases, the authorities may enforce compliance through imposition of fines, imposition of a provisional or conditional license, suspension or revocation of a license, suspension or denial of admissions, loss of certification as a provider under federal health care programs, or imposition of other sanctions. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to enforcement action that can materially and adversely affect business and revenues. Like other senior living communities, we have received notice of deficiencies from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Regulation of the senior living industry is evolving. Our operations could suffer if future regulatory developments, such as mandatory increases in scope of care given to residents, licensing and certification standards are revised, or a determination is made that the care provided by one or more of our communities exceeds the level of care for which the community is licensed. If regulatory requirements increase, whether through enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the application of existing rules, our operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels in recent years for reform affecting payment of health care services. Some aspects of these initiatives could adversely affect us, such as reductions in Medicare or Medicaid program funding. We are also subject to certain federal and state laws that regulate financial arrangements by health care providers, such as the Federal Anti-Kickback Law. This law makes it unlawful for any person to offer or pay (or to solicit or receive) “any remuneration...directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind” for referring or recommending for purchase of any item or service which is eligible for payment under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Authorities have interpreted this statute very broadly to apply to many practices and relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. If a health care provider were to violate the 45 Anti-Kickback Law, it may face criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Similarly, health care providers are subject to the False Claims Act with respect to their participation in federal health care reimbursement programs. Under the False Claims Act, the government or private individuals acting on behalf of the government may bring an action alleging that a health care provider has defrauded the government and seek treble damages for false claims and the payment of additional monetary civil penalties. Many states have enacted similar anti-kickback and false claims laws that may have a broad impact on health care providers and their payor sources. Recently other health care providers have faced enforcement action under the False Claims Act. It is difficult to predict how our revenue could be affected if we were subject to an action alleging violations. We are also subject to federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality of patient health information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has issued rules pursuant to HIPAA relating to the privacy of such information. In addition, many states have confidentiality laws, which in some cases may exceed the federal standard. We have adopted procedures for the proper use and disclosure of residents’ health information in compliance with the relevant state and federal laws, including HIPAA. Risks Relating to our Organization and Structure Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law could make it more difficult to effect a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us or discourage an attempt to do so. In addition, these provisions could limit the price some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. These provisions include: • Board authority to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock having a preference as to dividends or liquidation over the common stock without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Sunrise; • Staggered board and board size fixed within range. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. The total number of directors is fixed by a two-thirds vote of the board within a range of a minimum of two and a maximum of 11. These provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, would generally be required to affect a change in a majority of our Board of Directors; • Filling of Board vacancies; removal. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including any vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, shall be filled for the unexpired term by the vote of a majority of the directors then in office, and any director so chosen shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred. Directors may only be removed with cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors; • Other constituency provision. Our Board of Directors is required under our certificate of incorporation to consider other constituencies, such as employees, residents, their families and the communities in which we and our subsidiaries operate, in evaluating any proposal to acquire us. This provision may allow our Board of Directors to reject an acquisition proposal even though the proposal was in the best interests of our stockholders subject to any overriding applicable law; • Call of special meetings. A special meeting of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president, by a majority of the directors or by stockholders possessing at least 25% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding voting stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. This provision limits the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; 46 • Stockholder action instead of meeting by unanimous written consent. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders must be affected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such holders, unless such consent is unanimous. This provision limits the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • Supermajority vote of stockholders or the directors required for bylaw amendments. A two-thirds vote of the outstanding shares of common stock is required for stockholders to amend the bylaws. Amendments to the bylaws by directors require approval by at least a two-thirds vote of the directors. These provisions may make more difficult bylaw amendments that stockholders may believe are desirable; • Two-thirds stockholder vote required to approve some amendments to the certificate of incorporation. A two-thirds vote of the outstanding shares of common stock is required for approval of amendments to the foregoing provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. All amendments to the certificate of incorporation must first be proposed by a two-thirds vote of directors. These supermajority vote requirements may make more difficult amendments to these provisions of the certificate of incorporation that stockholders may believe are desirable; and • Advance notice bylaw. We have an advance notice bylaw provision requiring stockholders intending to present nominations for directors or other business for consideration at a meeting of stockholders to notify us no later than 60 days before the meeting or 15 days after the notice of the meeting date is mailed or public notice of the meeting is given, if less than 75 days’ notice of the meeting date is given or made to stockholders. This provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations for directors or introduce other proposals that are not timely received for consideration at a meeting. In addition to the anti-takeover provisions described above, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 generally prohibits a person beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in a business combination with us for three years after the person acquired the stock. However, this prohibition does not apply if (A) our Board of Directors approves in advance the person’s ownership of 15% or more of the shares or the business combination or (B) the business combination is approved by our stockholders by a vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares not owned by the acquiring person. When we were formed, the Klaassens and their respective affiliates and estates were exempted from this provision. Our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan that could discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. In April 2006, our Board of Directors adopted a new stockholder rights plan, which replaced the Company’s previously existing stockholder rights plan which expired on April 24, 2006. The stockholder rights plan may discourage a third party from making an unsolicited proposal to acquire us. Under the plan, preferred stock purchase rights, which are attached to our common stock, generally will be triggered upon the acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. If triggered, these rights would entitle our stockholders, other than the person triggering the rights, to purchase our common stock, and, under certain circumstances, the common stock of an acquirer, at a price equal to one-half the market value of our common stock. Our management has influence over matters requiring the approval of stockholders. As of February 29, 2008, the Klaassens beneficially owned approximately 11.7% of our outstanding common stock and our executive officers and directors as a group, including the Klaassens, beneficially owned approximately 14% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, the Klaassens and our other executive officers and directors have influence over matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including business combinations and the election of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On December 28, 2005, we received correspondence from the staff of the SEC relating to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. We have subsequently engaged in communications and correspondence with the SEC staff, and as of the date of this filing, 47 we have outstanding unresolved comments from the SEC staff with respect to disclosure contained in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. We have modified the disclosure in this Form 10-K in an effort to reflect all of the SEC staff’s prior comments. We understand that the SEC staff is waiting to resolve the outstanding comments until after we have filed this Form 10-K. As a result, we may receive additional comments from the SEC staff relating to our responses to the prior staff comments, new matters related to this Form 10-K or other periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Such comments may require that we amend or supplement, possibly significantly, the disclosures in this Form 10-K, including our restated financial statements included herein, or other periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Item 2. Properties We lease our corporate offices, regional operations and development offices, and warehouse space under various leases. The leases have terms of three to 14 years. Of the 440 communities we operated at December 31, 2006, 32 were consolidated, 32 were leased under operating leases, one was a consolidated variable interest entity, 183 were owned in unconsolidated ventures (including eight communities which did not qualify for sales accounting under SFAS 66 Accounting for the Sales of Real Estate) and 192 were owned by third parties. Of the 457 communities we operated at December 31, 2007, 34 were wholly owned, 31 were leased under operating leases, one was a consolidated variable interest entity, 201 were owned in unconsolidated ventures and 190 were owned by third parties. See the “Properties” section included in Item 1, “Business” for a description of the properties. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of mortgages and notes payable related to certain of our properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings CGB Occupational Therapy As previously disclosed, we were a defendant in a lawsuit filed by CGB Occupational Therapy, Inc. (“CGB”) in September 2000 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. CGB provided therapy services to two nursing home communities in Pennsylvania that were owned by RHA Pennsylvania Nursing Homes (“RHA”) and managed by one of our subsidiaries. In 1998, RHA terminated CGB’s contract. In its lawsuit, CGB alleged, among other things, that in connection with that termination, Sunrise tortiously interfered with CGB’s contractual relationships with RHA and several of the therapists that CGB employed on an at-will basis. In a series of court decisions during 2002 through 2005, CGB was awarded compensatory damages of $109,000 and punitive damages of $2 million. In 2005, Sunrise appealed the punitive damages award. On August 23, 2007, a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated the $2 million punitive damages award and remanded the case with instructions that the district court enter a new judgment for punitive damages in the amount of $750,000. On September 5, 2007, CGB filed a petition for rehearing with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. That petition was denied on September 24, 2007. The Company paid $750,000 in damages and $149,000 in interest to CGB on February 1, 2008 in full and complete satisfaction of the judgment. Bellaire Litigation As previously disclosed, in September 2005, a bus chartered to evacuate 37 residents from a Sunrise community near Houston, Texas in anticipation of Hurricane Rita caught fire, resulting in the deaths of 23 residents. We were named as one of several defendants in various lawsuits filed in Texas state court as a result of the bus incident. During the first and second quarters of 2007, we settled all claims made against us and all claims against us have been dismissed. We paid a total of $1.5 million, net of insurance payments, to settle the claims made against us, and have incurred approximately $0.1 million of additional expenses related to this litigation. Trinity OIG Investigation and Qui Tam Action As previously disclosed, on September 14, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Trinity. As a result of this transaction, Trinity became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. On January 3, 2007, Trinity received a subpoena from the Phoenix field office of the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 48 Health and Human Services (“OIG”) requesting certain information regarding Trinity’s operations in three locations for the period January 1, 2000 through June 30, 2006, a period that was prior to the Company’s acquisition of Trinity. The Company was advised that the subpoena was issued in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the U.S. Department of Justice and the civil division of the U.S. Attorney’s office in Arizona. The subpoena indicates that the OIG is investigating possible improper Medicare billing under the Federal False Claims Act (“FCA”). In addition to recovery of any Medicare reimbursements previously paid for false claims, an entity found to have submitted false claims under the FCA may be subject to treble damages plus a fine of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each false claim submitted. Trinity has complied with the subpoena and continues to supplement its responses as requested. On September 11, 2007, Trinity and the Company were served with a Complaint filed on September 5, 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. That filing amended a Complaint filed under seal on November 21, 2005 by four former employees of Trinity under the qui tam provisions of the FCA. The qui tam provisions authorize persons (“relators”) claiming to have evidence that false claims may have been submitted to the United States to file suit on behalf of the United States against the party alleged to have submitted such false claims. Qui tam suits remain under seal for a period of at least 60 days to enable the government to investigate the allegations and to decide whether to intervene and litigate the lawsuit, or, alternatively, to decline to intervene, in which case the qui tam Plaintiff, or “relator,” may proceed to litigate the case on behalf of the United States. Qui tam relators are entitled to 15% to 30% of the recovery obtained for the United States by trial or settlement of the claims they file on its behalf. On June 6, 2007, the Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney for Arizona filed a Notice with the Court advising of its decision not to intervene in the case, indicating that its investigation was still ongoing. This action followed previous applications by the U.S. Government for extensions of time to decide whether to intervene. As a result, on July 10, 2007, the Court ordered the Complaint unsealed and the litigation to proceed. The matter is therefore currently being litigated by the four individual relators. However, under the FCA, the U.S. Government could still intervene in the future. The amended Complaint alleges that during periods prior to the acquisition by the Company, Trinity engaged in certain actions intended to obtain Medicare reimbursement for services rendered to beneficiaries whose medical conditions were not of a type rendering them eligible for hospice reimbursement and violated the FCA by submitting claims to Medicare as if the services were covered services. The relators allege in their amended Complaint that the total loss sustained by the United States is probably in the $75 million to $100 million range. The original Complaint named KRG Capital, LLC (an affiliate of former stockholders of Trinity) and Trinity Hospice LLC (a subsidiary of Trinity) as defendants. The amended Complaint names Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., KRG Capital, LLC and Trinity as defendants. The lawsuit is styled United States ex rel. Joyce Roberts, et al., v. KRG Capital, LLC, et al., CV05 3758 PHX-MEA (D. Ariz.). On February 13, 2008, Trinity received a subpoena from the Los Angeles regional office of the OIG requesting information regarding Trinity’s operations in 19 locations for the period between December 1, 1998 through February 12, 2008. This subpoena relates to the ongoing investigation being conducted by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the U.S. Department of Justice and the civil division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Arizona, as discussed above. Trinity is in the process of complying with the subpoena. In 2006, the Company recorded a loss of $5 million for possible fines, penalties and damages related to this matter. IRS Audit The Internal Revenue Service is auditing our federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 and our federal employment tax returns for 2004, 2005 and 2006. Lawsuit Filed by Former CFO As previously disclosed, on September 18, 2007, Bradley B. Rush, the Company’s former chief financial officer, filed suit against us in the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, Virginia, in connection with the termination of his employment for cause. As previously disclosed, on April 23, 2007, Mr. Rush was suspended with pay. The action was taken by the board of directors following a briefing of the independent directors by WilmerHale, independent counsel to the Special Independent Committee. The Board concluded, among other things, that certain actions taken by Mr. Rush were not consistent with the document retention directives issued by the Company. 49 Mr. Rush’s employment thereafter was terminated for cause on May 2, 2007. Mr. Rush’s lawsuit asserts that his termination was part of an alleged campaign of retaliation against him for purportedly uncovering and seeking to address accounting irregularities, and it contends that his termination was not for “cause” under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Cash Bonus Plan and the terms of prior awards made to him of certain stock options and shares of restricted stock, to which he claims entitlement notwithstanding his termination. Mr. Rush asserts five breach of contract claims involving a bonus, restricted stock and stock options. Mr. Rush also asserts a claim for defamation arising out of comments attributed to us concerning the circumstances of his earlier suspension of employment. His complaint seeks compensatory damages in an amount of no more than $13 million, and punitive damages in an amount of no more than $350,000. We believe that the allegations in Mr. Rush’s complaint lack both factual and legal merit, and we are defending vigorously against his claims. SEC Investigation We previously announced on December 11, 2006 that we had received a request from the SEC for information about insider stock sales, timing of stock option grants and matters relating to our historical accounting practices that had been raised in media reports in the latter part of November 2006 following receipt of a letter by us from the Service Employees International Union. On May 25, 2007, we were advised by the staff of the SEC that it has commenced a formal investigation. We have fully cooperated, and intend to continue to fully cooperate, with the SEC. Putative Class Action Litigation Two putative securities class actions, styled United Food & Commercial Workers Union Local 880-Retail Food Employers Joint Pension Fund, et al. v. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., et al., Case No. 1:07CV00102, and First New York Securities, L.L.C. v. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., et al., Case No. 1:07CV000294, were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on January 16, 2007 and February 8, 2007, respectively. Both complaints alleged securities law violations by Sunrise and certain of its current or former officers and directors based on allegedly improper accounting practices and stock option backdating, violations of generally accepted accounting principles, false and misleading corporate disclosures, and insider trading of Sunrise stock. Both sought to certify a class for the period August 4, 2005 through June 15, 2006, and both requested damages and equitable relief, including an accounting and disgorgement. Pursuant to procedures provided by statute, two other parties, the Miami General Employees’ & Sanitation Employees’ Retirement Trust and the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System, appeared and jointly moved for consolidation of the two securities cases and appointment as the lead plaintiffs, which the Court ultimately approved. Thereafter, a stipulation was submitted pursuant to which the new putative class plaintiffs will file their consolidated amended complaint (under the caption In re Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. 07-CV-00102-RBW) within 45 days after Sunrise files the restatement of the Company’s 2003, 2004 and 2005 financial statements. Although it cannot be known with certainty what claims or allegations will be advanced when that amended complaint is filed, it is anticipated that Sunrise and the individual defendants will move to dismiss it. Putative Shareholder Derivative Litigation On January 19, 2007, the first of three putative shareholder derivative complaints was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against certain of our current and former directors and officers, and naming us as a nominal defendant. The three cases are captioned: Brockton Contributory Retirement System v. Paul J. Klaassen, et al., Case No. 1:07CV00143 (USDC); Catherine Molner v. Paul J. Klaassen, et al., Case No. 1:07CV00227 (USDC) (filed 1/31/2007); Robert Anderson v. Paul J. Klaassen, et al., Case No. 1:07CV00286 (USDC) (filed 2/5/2007). Counsel for the plaintiffs subsequently agreed among themselves to the appointment of lead plaintiffs and lead counsel. On June 29, 2007, the lead plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Shareholder Derivative Complaint (the “Consolidated Complaint”), again naming us as a nominal defendant, and naming as individual defendants Paul J. Klaassen, Teresa M. Klaassen, Ronald V. Aprahamian, Craig R. Callen, Thomas J. Donohue, J. Douglas Holladay, William G. Little, David G. Bradley, Peter A. Klisares, Scott F. Meadow, Robert R. Slager, Thomas B. Newell, Tiffany L. Tomasso, John F. Gaul, Bradley G. Rush, Carl Adams, David W. Faeder, Larry E. Hulse, Timothy S. Smick, Brian C. Swinton and Christian B. A. Slavin. The Consolidated Complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws and breaches of fiduciary duty by the individual 50 defendants, arising out of the same matters as are raised in the purported class action litigation described above. The plaintiffs seek damages and equitable relief on behalf of Sunrise. We and the individual defendants filed separate motions to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. On the date that their oppositions to those motions were due, the plaintiffs instead attempted to file an amended complaint that does not substantially alter the nature of their claims. We anticipate that Sunrise and the individual defendants will file new motions to dismiss if this amended complaint is accepted by the court, or will renew their pending motions to dismiss the currently operative complaint. On March 6, 2007, a putative shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware against Paul J. Klaassen, Teresa M. Klaassen, Ronald V. Aprahamian, Craig R. Callen, Thomas J. Donohue, J. Douglas Holladay, David G. Bradley, Robert R. Slager, Thomas B. Newell, Tiffany L. Tomasso, Carl Adams, David W. Faeder, Larry E. Hulse, Timothy S. Smick, Brian C. Swinton and Christian B. A. Slavin, and naming us as a nominal defendant. The case is captioned Peter V. Young, et al. v. Paul L. Klaassen, et al., Case No. 2770-N (CCNCC). The complaint alleges breaches of fiduciary duty by the individual defendants arising out of the grant of certain stock options that are the subject of the purported class action and shareholder derivative litigation described above. The plaintiffs seek damages and equitable relief on behalf of Sunrise. We and the individual defendants have separately filed motions to dismiss this complaint, which remain pending at this time. In addition, two putative shareholder derivative suits were filed in August and September 2006, which were subsequently dismissed. The cases were filed in the Circuit Court for Fairfax County, Virginia, captioned Nicholas Von Guggenberg v. Paul J. Klaassen, et al., Case No. CL 200610174 (FCCC) (filed 8/11/2006); and Catherine Molner v. Paul J. Klaassen, et al., Case No. CL 200611244 (FCCC) (filed 9/6/2006). The complaints were very similar (and filed by the same attorneys), naming certain of our current and former directors and officers as individual defendants, and naming us as a nominal defendant. The complaints both alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by the individual defendants, arising out of the grant of certain stock options that are the subject of the purported class action and shareholder derivative litigation described above. The Von Guggenberg suit was dismissed pursuant to preliminary motions filed by Sunrise (the plaintiff subsequently filed a petition for appeal with the Supreme Court of Virginia, which was denied, thus concluding the case). The Molner suit was dismissed when the plaintiff filed an uncontested notice of non-suit (permitted by right under Virginia law), after the Company had filed preliminary motions making the same arguments that resulted in the dismissal of the Von Guggenberg suit. As described above, the plaintiff in Molner later refiled suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Delaware General Corporation Law Section 211 Litigation On July 16, 2007, Millenco, L.L.C. filed suit seeking an order from the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware pursuant to Section 211 of the Delaware General Corporation Law requiring that we hold our 2007 annual meeting of shareholders within forty-five days after the date on which any such court order was entered. On September 5, 2007, we settled the Millenco litigation by agreeing to a Stipulated Final Order, the material terms of which provided that we would hold our 2007 annual meeting on October 16, 2007 and that each of Paul J. Klaassen and Craig R. Callen, two of our incumbent directors whose terms of office expired at the 2007 annual meeting, and Lynn Krominga, one of the candidates proposed by Millenco and agreed to by our board of directors, would stand for election to a new three-year term that expires at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. In connection with the settlement of this litigation, effective September 5, 2007, our board of directors also expanded the size of the board from eight to nine members and appointed Ms. Krominga as a director to an initial term of office expiring at the 2007 annual meeting. On October 10, 2007, we settled a second lawsuit, this one filed by SEIU Master Trust, also in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, regarding our annual meeting of stockholders. This settlement modified, with the Court’s approval, the Stipulated Final Order that had been entered in the Millenco litigation to provide that the business to be conducted at the 2007 annual meeting would consist of election of directors and consideration of two shareholder proposals. Our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders was held on October 16, 2007 pursuant to the Stipulated Final Order. A description of the shareholder proposals, and the results of the votes cast by our stockholders at the 2007 annual meeting with respect to such proposals and for the election of our directors, are set forth in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 22, 2007. 51 Other Lawsuits and Claims In addition to the lawsuits and litigation matters described above, we are involved in various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, although the outcomes of these other suits and claims are uncertain, in the aggregate they are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 52 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “SRZ.” Until we are current in all of our periodic reporting requirements with the SEC, the NYSE will identify us as a late filer on its website and consolidated tape by affixing the letters “LF” to our common stock ticker symbol. In September 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. As a result of the stock split, stockholders received one additional share of common stock for each outstanding share of common stock held at the close of business on September 20, 2005, effective October 3, 2005. All share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock: Quarterly Market Price Range of Common Stock Quarter Ending High Low March 31, 2008 (through February 29, 2008) $ 30.65 $ 24.64 Quarter Ended High Low March 31, 2007 $ 41.50 $ 30.10 June 30, 2007 $ 42.97 $ 36.43 September 30, 2007 $ 41.05 $ 33.00 December 31, 2007 $ 39.70 $ 26.78 Quarter Ended High Low March 31, 2006 $ 39.68 $ 31.64 June 30, 2006 $ 39.62 $ 26.29 September 30, 2006 $ 32.12 $ 24.40 December 31, 2006 $ 33.68 $ 29.05 Quarter Ended High Low March 31, 2005 $ 24.93 $ 21.40 June 30, 2005 $ 27.58 $ 23.15 September 30, 2005 $ 33.50 $ 25.80 December 31, 2005 $ 37.47 $ 30.37 Holders There were 237 stockholders of record at February 29, 2008. Dividends No cash dividends have been paid in the past and we have no intention to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In November 2005, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $50.0 million of our common stock. The plan extended through December 31, 2007. There were no repurchases during 2006 or 2007. 53 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein. December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2006(1) as Restated(2)(3) as Restated(2) as Restated(2)(4) as Restated(2) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) STATEMENTS OF INCOME DATA: Operating revenues(5) $ 1,648,399 $ 1,509,438 $ 1,267,640 $ 998,283 $ 728,184 Operating expenses(5) 1,713,137 1,468,175 1,277,274 1,003,499 723,530 (Loss) income from operations (64,738 ) 41,263 (9,634 ) (5,216 ) 4,654 Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 51,347 81,723 14,025 51,276 71,224 Sunrise’s share of earnings, return on investment in unconsolidated communities and loss on profit sharing investments 42,845 12,615 (70 ) 962 3,818 Net income 20,357 87,089 1,114 14,705 28,314 Net income per common share(6)(7): Basic $ 0.42 $ 2.10 $ 0.03 $ 0.35 $ 0.63 Diluted 0.40 $ 1.82 $ 0.03 0.34 0.62 BALANCE SHEET DATA: Total current assets as restated $ 356,084 $ 326,888 $ 282,524 $ 204,726 $ 257,614 Total current assets as previously reported 416,772 330,695 235,895 254,386 Total current liabilities as restated 421,109 280,684 203,998 137,526 83,594 Total current liabilities as previously reported 341,909 252,551 164,772 114,747 Property and equipment as restated 609,385 494,069 359,070 509,833 293,753 Property and equipment as previously reported 458,546 369,632 412,228 299,683 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net as restated 193,158 255,231 473,485 459,187 161,978 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net as previously reported — — — — Property and equipment subject to financing, net as restated 62,520 64,174 28,988 — — Property and equipment subject to financing, net as previously reported — — — — Goodwill as restated 218,015 153,328 121,825 104,475 32,749 Goodwill as previously reported 165,028 123,713 106,139 32,749 Total assets as restated 1,817,428 1,587,785 1,506,453 1,501,608 1,188,926 Total assets as previously reported 1,328,276 1,105,756 1,009,798 1,116,151 Total debt as restated 190,605 248,396 191,666 270,332 456,969 Total debt as previously reported 202,789 191,666 198,122 456,969 54 December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2006(1) as Restated(2)(3) as Restated(2) as Restated(2)(4) as Restated(2) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract as restated 240,367 324,782 599,071 540,382 155,845 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract as previously reported — — — — Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method as restated 66,283 64,208 24,247 — — Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method as previously reported — — — — Deferred income tax liabilities as restated 89,267 78,004 63,637 65,010 54,778 Deferred income tax liabilities as previously reported 165,957 148,790 129,661 96,112 Total liabilities as restated 1,153,612 1,082,689 1,135,170 1,083,323 772,424 Total liabilities as previously reported 691,418 580,658 517,919 648,472 Stockholders’ equity as restated(6) 647,301 492,385 369,703 389,191 415,535 Stockholders’ equity as previously reported 632,677 523,518 490,276 465,818 OPERATING AND OTHER DATA: Cash dividends declared per common share $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — Communities (at end of period): Communities consolidated 65 61 60 66 81 Communities in unconsolidated ventures 183 156 125 120 100 Communities managed for third party owners 192 198 195 187 28 Total 440 415 380 373 209 Resident capacity: Communities consolidated 8,646 7,980 7,943 8,539 5,497 Communities in unconsolidated ventures 20,433 16,485 10,929 10,561 8,781 Communities managed for third party owners 23,091 26,208 24,237 23,651 2,322 Total 52,170 50,673 43,109 42,751 16,600 (1) In September 2006, we acquired 100% of the equity interests in Trinity a large provider of hospice services in the United States. The operating results of Trinity are included in our consolidated statements of income beginning September 13, 2006. (2) The financial information included in this table for the years 2002 through 2005 has been restated to correct errors in the accounting for real estate projects, investments in real estate ventures, stock-based compensation and other matters as discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below reconciles income before provision for income taxes previously reported and restated for the years 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002. 55 (3) In May 2005, we acquired 100% of the equity interests in Greystone, a developer and manager of CCRCs. The operating results of Greystone are included in our restated consolidated statement of income beginning May 10, 2005. (4) In March 2003, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Marriott International, Inc.’s wholly owned subsidiary, MSLS, which owns and operates senior independent full-service and assisted living communities. The operating results of MSLS are included in our restated consolidated statement of income beginning March 28, 2003. (5) In 2006, Five Star bought out 18 management contracts and we received $134.7 million related to their buyout. We also wrote off $25.4 in unamortized management contract intangible assets. In 2005, Five Star bought out 12 management contracts and we received $83.0 million related to their buyout. We also wrote off $14.6 million in unamortized management contract intangible assets. (6) In October 2005, we completed a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. As a result of the stock split, each stockholder received one additional share of common stock for each share on that date. All per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. (7) In February 2006, we completed the redemption of our remaining 5.25% convertible subordinated notes due February 1, 2009 through the issuance of common stock. Prior to the redemption date, substantially all of the approximately $120 million principal amount of the notes outstanding at the time the redemption was announced had been converted into approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock. The conversion price was $17.92 per share in accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the notes. Accounting Restatement Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Income before provision for income taxes, as previously reported $ 126,213 $ 80,456 $ 97,153 $ 88,163 Restatement Adjustments: Real estate sales 48,893 (57,259 ) (57,942 ) (28,148 ) Costs of real estate projects (2,336 ) (5,036 ) (2,197 ) (4,168 ) Equity method investments with preferences (4,024 ) (4,112 ) (4,016 ) 962 Stock-based compensation (2,255 ) (687 ) (4,224 ) (3,547 ) Revenue recognition for Greystone development contracts (13,034 ) — — — Other adjustments (11,645 ) (12,733 ) (8,369 ) (5,064 ) Income before provision for income taxes, as restated 141,812 629 20,405 48,198 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes, as restated (54,723 ) 485 (5,700 ) (19,884 ) Net income, as restated $ 87,089 $ 1,114 $ 14,705 $ 28,314 56 Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements includes a table that reconciles amounts previously reported and restated amounts for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated, giving effect to the restatement adjustments described above and showing previously reported and restated amounts for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands), except per share amounts. Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 As Previously Increase As Previously Increase Reported (Decrease) As Restated Reported (Decrease) As Restated (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Total operating revenues $ 1,096,260 $ (97,977 ) $ 998,283 $ 421,539 $ 20,293 $ 441,832 Total operating expenses 1,072,451 (68,952 ) 1,003,499 390,052 47,126 437,178 Income (loss) from operations 23,809 (29,025 ) (5,216 ) 31,487 (26,833 ) 4,654 Other non-operating expense (16,571 ) (8,327 ) (24,898 ) (24,120 ) (7,218 ) (31,338 ) Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 85,677 (34,401 ) 51,276 80,261 (9,037 ) 71,224 Sunrise’s share of earnings, return on investment in unconsolidated communities and loss on profit sharing investments 5,343 (4,381 ) 962 695 3,123 3,818 Minority interests (1,105 ) (614 ) (1,719 ) (160 ) — (160 ) Income before income taxes 97,153 (76,748 ) 20,405 88,163 (39,965 ) 48,198 (Provision for) benefit from for income taxes (34,975 ) 29,275 (5,700 ) (33,502 ) 13,618 (19,884 ) Net income $ 62,178 $ (47,473 ) $ 14,705 $ 54,661 $ (26,347 ) $ 28,314 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 1.46 $ (1.11 ) $ 0.35 $ 1.22 $ (0.59 ) $ 0.63 Diluted net income per common share 1.32 (0.98 ) 0.34 1.12 (0.50 ) 0.62 Total assets $ 1,009,798 $ 491,810 $ 1,501,608 $ 1,116,151 $ 72,775 $ 1,188,926 Total debt 198,122 72,210 270,332 456,969 — 456,969 Stockholders’ equity 490,276 (101,085 ) 389,191 465,818 (50,283 ) 415,535 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read together with the information contained in our consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, and other financial information appearing elsewhere herein. Overview We are a provider of senior living services in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. We offer a full range of personalized senior living services, from independent living, to assisted living, to care for individuals with Alzheimer’s and other forms of memory loss, to nursing, rehabilitative and hospice care. We also develop senior living communities for ourselves, for ventures in which we retain an ownership interest and for third parties. Our long-range strategic objective is to grow our senior living business through a management services business model that is built on long-term management contracts. Our four primary growth drivers consist of: (1) generating revenue growth from our existing operating portfolio of owned and managed communities; (2) adding additional communities through new construction, primarily with venture partners; (3) generating profitable growth 57 through the delivery of hospice and other ancillary services; and (4) maximizing our return on our equity investment in unconsolidated ventures and other invested capital. We earn income primarily in the following ways: • management fees for operating communities, which can also include incentive management fees; • resident fees for communities that are owned by Sunrise; • development and pre-opening fees related to the development of new Sunrise communities; • our share of income and losses for those communities in which we have an ownership interest; • recapitalizations and sales of communities by ventures in which Sunrise has an equity interest; and • fees for hospice services. At December 31, 2006, we operated 440 communities, including 412 communities in the United States, 11 communities in Canada, 12 communities in the United Kingdom and five communities in Germany, with a total resident capacity of approximately 52,000. We owned or had an ownership interest in 248 of these communities and 192 are managed for third parties. In addition, at December 31, 2006, we provided pre-opening management and professional services to 39 communities under construction, of which 26 communities are in the United States, one community is in Canada, seven communities are in the United Kingdom, and five communities are in Germany, with a combined capacity for approximately 5,600 residents. During 2006, we opened 30 new communities, with a combined resident capacity of more than 3,300 residents, which were developed by us. At December 31, 2007, we operated 457 communities, including 420 communities in the United States, 12 communities in Canada, 17 communities in the United Kingdom and eight communities in Germany, with a total resident capacity of approximately 54,000. We owned or had an ownership interest in 267 of these communities and 190 are managed for third parties. In addition, at December 31, 2007, we provided pre-opening management and professional services to 45 communities under construction, of which 32 communities are in the United States, four communities are in Canada, eight communities are in the United Kingdom, and one community is in Germany, with a combined capacity for approximately 5,800 residents. During 2007, we opened 22 new communities with a combined resident capacity of approximately 2,600 residents, which were developed by us. Management of Communities We manage and operate communities that are wholly owned by us, communities that are owned by unconsolidated ventures in which we have a minority ownership interest and communities that are wholly owned by third parties. For the communities that we manage for unconsolidated ventures and third parties, we typically are paid a base management fee of approximately five to eight percent of the community’s revenue. In addition, in certain management contracts, we have the opportunity to earn incentive management fees based on monthly or yearly operating or cash flow results. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of debt guarantees, operating deficit guarantees and credit support arrangements provided to certain of our unconsolidated ventures or third-party owners. For the communities that we operate that are wholly owned, we receive resident and ancillary fees. Development of Communities In order to grow the operating portfolio that we manage, we also develop senior living communities. We typically develop senior living communities in partnership with others. We also develop wholly owned senior living communities for ourselves, which we expect to contribute to ventures or third-party owners before construction is completed. We believe we have maintained a disciplined approach to site selection and refinement of our operating model, first introduced more than 20 years ago, and are constantly searching for ways to improve our communities. We enter into development ventures in order to reduce our initial capital requirements, while enabling us to enter into long-term management agreements that are intended to provide us with a continuing stream of revenue. When development is undertaken in partnership with others, our venture partners provide significant cash equity investments, and we take a minority interest in such ventures. Additionally, non-recourse third-party construction debt is obtained to provide the majority of funds necessary to complete development. In addition to third-party debt, we may provide financing necessary to complete the construction for these development ventures. At December 31, 58 2006, there were 24 communities under construction held in unconsolidated ventures. At December 31, 2007, there were 30 communities under construction held in unconsolidated ventures. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of guarantees provided to certain of our development ventures. We receive fees from our development ventures for services related to site selection, zoning, and design. Services provided prior to transferring the land to a venture or a third party for further development are recognized in “Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests” in our consolidated statements of income. Services provided for construction supervision, employee selection, licensing, training and marketing efforts after the land has been transferred are recognized as operating revenue and are included in “Professional fees from development, marketing and other” in the consolidated statements of income. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of development completion guarantees provided to certain of our development ventures. From time to time we also develop wholly owned senior living communities. At December 31, 2006, we had five wholly owned communities under construction with a resident capacity of over 700 residents. At December 31, 2007, we had eight wholly owned communities under construction with a resident capacity of over 900 residents. We expect most of these communities to be sold to a venture or third party before construction is completed or, in some cases, upon receipt of a certificate of occupancy. We provide funding for the construction, not otherwise financed by construction loans, and capitalize the development costs associated with construction prior to the contribution of the development community to a venture or third-party owner. For communities that remain wholly owned, we often recognize operating losses during the initial one to two years prior to the community achieving stabilization. Senior Living Condominium Developments We began to develop senior living condominium projects in 2004. By the first quarter of 2008, we had discontinued or suspended the development of all but one of our condominium development projects. Special Independent Committee Inquiry and Accounting Review Special Independent Committee Inquiry In December 2006, Sunrise’s Board of Directors established a Special Independent Committee to review certain allegations made by the SEIU. In March 2007, Sunrise’s Board of Directors expanded the scope of the Special Independent Committee’s mandate to include the review of facts and circumstances relating to the historical accounting treatment of certain categories of transactions in the restatement, and to develop recommendations regarding any remedial measures, including those pertaining to internal controls and processes over financial reporting, that it may determine to be warranted. On September 28, 2007, the Company disclosed that the Special Independent Committee had concluded the fact-finding portion of its inquiry with respect to three issues. The first involved the timing of certain stock option grants. The second involved the facts and circumstances with respect to two significant categories of errors in the pending restatement relating to real estate accounting for the effect of preferences provided to the buyer in a partial sale, certain Sunrise guarantees and commitments on timing of sale accounting and recognition of income upon sale of real estate, and accounting for allocation of profits and losses in those ventures in which Sunrise’s partners received a preference on cash flow. The third involved whether directors and executive officers traded in Sunrise common stock when in possession of non-public knowledge of possible accounting errors related to these real estate transactions prior to Sunrise’s May 2006 announcement of its accounting review. With respect to these three issues, the Special Independent Committee found: • no evidence of backdating or other intentional misconduct with respect to the grants on the 38 grant dates examined, including those specifically questioned by the SEIU, or the possible errors identified by the Special Independent Committee in the accounting for stock options; • no evidence of an intention to reach an inappropriate accounting result with respect to the two categories of real estate accounting errors reviewed, no knowledge that these accounting errors were incorrect at the time they were made, and no evidence that information was concealed from review by the external auditors at the time the accounting judgments were made; and 59 • no evidence that any director or officer who traded in the months prior to the announcement of the Accounting Review had material non-public information relating to either of these two categories of real estate accounting errors. The Special Independent Committee identified a number of accounting issues under GAAP in connection with certain of the option grants reviewed. As a result of the Special Independent Committee’s findings, the Company concluded that unintentional errors were made in connection with the accounting for a September 1998 repricing and certain other stock option grants. These errors were corrected as part of the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements as set forth in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements — Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” for additional information. On December 20, 2007, the Company announced the completion of the fact-finding portion of the Special Independent Committee inquiry with respect to the last issue being reviewed by it. This portion of the inquiry primarily related to the review of certain judgmental accruals and reserves. The Special Independent Committee found that inappropriate accounting occurred with respect to certain adjustments in these accruals and reserves during the third quarter of 2003 through the fourth quarter of 2005. This inappropriate accounting was corrected as part of the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements as set forth in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding remedial issues recommended by the Special Independent Committee and adopted by the Board of Directors, please refer to Item 9A in this Form 10-K. During 2007, we have incurred approximately $42 million in professional fees and other costs in connection with the Company’s Accounting Review and the Special Independent Committee’s inquiry. Accounting Review The financial statements as of and for all periods prior to December 31, 2005 were subject to a comprehensive Accounting Review to correct various accounting errors. The Accounting Review resulted in the following major restatement categories: • real estate sales; • costs of real estate projects; • equity method investments with preferences; • revenue recognition for Greystone contracts; • stock-based compensation; • reimbursed expenses; and • other adjustments. Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements provides a reconciliation between amounts previously reported and the restated amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. As shown in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the impact to 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was an increase of $15.6 million in 2005 and a reduction of $79.8 million in 2004. The impact to net income was an increase in 2005 of $7.3 million and a reduction in 2004 of $49.6 million. In addition, certain of the adjustments impacted periods prior to 2004 and the net effect of these prior adjustments is a $101.1 million reduction in total stockholders’ equity at January 1, 2004. The adjustment for real estate sales and equity method investments with preferences was a $160.6 million reduction to pre-tax income. A large portion of these adjustments result from delayed recognition of sales transactions, which have been recognized in 2006 or may be recognized in subsequent periods as ventures are recapitalized or sold or guarantees expire due to the passage of time. When recognized, these transactions are reflected in “gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests” and/or “Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities” in the consolidated statements of income. In 2006, the gain on the sale and development of real estate included $36.8 million related to recognition of sales for GAAP purposes that had been corrected in the Accounting Review. We anticipate that gain on the sale and development of real estate will 60 include approximately $70 million in 2007 related to recognition of sales for GAAP purposes that had been recognized in prior periods and have now been corrected in the Accounting Review. Accounting for Real Estate Sales Since 1997, Sunrise has entered into various real estate transactions, the most significant of which involved either: (i) the sale of a partial interest in a development venture in which Sunrise retained an interest and entered into a management contract or (ii) the sale of mature senior living properties or a partial interest in such properties to a third party where Sunrise simultaneously entered into a management contract. In most cases, Sunrise retained some form of continuing involvement including a partial ownership interest, coupled with a preferential return to the buyer, an obligation to complete the development, operating deficit funding obligations, support obligations or in some instances, options or obligations to reacquire the property or the buyer’s interest in the property. The following describes the sale accounting issues adjusted in the restatement. In certain projects, Sunrise acquired land and commenced development activities in a newly formed wholly owned venture (generally owned in the legal form as a limited liability company). Sunrise sold a majority of the venture interests to a third party and recapitalized the venture while development of the project was underway. Sunrise acted as the developer and earned development fees from the venture. In addition, Sunrise sold certain senior living properties or a partial interest in such properties to a third party where Sunrise simultaneously entered into a management contract. Sunrise previously recognized income for such transactions to the extent cash received from the new venture exceeded the proportionate cost of the venture’s assets. Sunrise has reviewed all ventures entered into between 1997 and 2005, and has corrected the accounting for these transactions to consider the adequacy of the initial investment and various forms of continuing involvement as set forth in FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate (“SFAS 66”). Initial Investment and Options to Reacquire In four of the transactions, the buyer’s initial investment was not adequate to achieve sale accounting treatment, and under SFAS 66, the Company has now applied the deposit method. In addition, for two of the transactions, Sunrise retained the option to repurchase the property at a stated rate of return to the other venturer. In these instances, the financing method of accounting has now been applied. Under both of these methods (which are described in more detail in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), the real estate remains on Sunrise’s books and any amounts received from the buyer are recorded as a liability. Cash Flow Preferences In most instances when a partial sale as described above occurred, the other venturer received a preference as to the cash flows of the venture. Historically, Sunrise did not consider these preferences in accounting for the sale of real estate. When transactions with these preferences exist, Sunrise has now applied all cash proceeds received from the venturer against its remaining investment and profit is recognized only to the extent that proceeds from the sale exceed costs related to the entire property. Continuing Support Obligations Sunrise provided an uncapped guaranteed return on investment to the buyers in sale transactions for many of the mature communities. Historically, Sunrise did not recognize the impact of these guarantees unless they considered payment under the guarantees to be probable. However, when these forms of guarantees exist for an extended period of time, SFAS 66 precludes sale accounting and the Company has now applied the profit sharing method regardless of the probability of payment. If the guarantee is for a limited period of time, the deposit method has now been applied until the operations of the property cover all operating expenses, debt service, and contractual payments. At that time, profit is recognized on the basis of performance of services method as described below. Under both the deposit and profit sharing method, the property remains on Sunrise’s books and depreciation continues. Of the sale transactions evaluated, Sunrise identified four that are for an extended period of time and revised the accounting to the profit sharing method, while 10 were revised to the deposit and performance of services methods of accounting due to the limited period of time covered by the guarantees. 61 Sunrise also provided uncapped guarantees to support operations of certain ventures. If the guarantees are for an extended period of time, the Company applied the profit sharing method and the property remained on Sunrise’s books, net of any cash proceeds received from the buyer. If the guarantees are for a limited period of time, partial sale accounting was achieved; however, profit is recognized by the basis of performance of services method under SFAS 66. Under the basis of performance of services method, performance of those services is measured by the costs incurred and to be incurred (including operating costs of the venture) over the period during which the services are performed. Profit is recognized when there is reasonable assurance that future rent receipts will cover operating expenses and debt service. Of the sale transactions evaluated, Sunrise identified four where the guarantees are for an extended period of time and revised the accounting to the profit sharing method and eight where the guarantees are for a limited period and revised the accounting to be on the basis of performance of services method. Accounting for Costs of Real Estate Projects In connection with Sunrise’s development activities, Sunrise historically capitalized all costs incurred for projects under development after acquisition of the land or purchase of an option to acquire the land. Sunrise then provided a reserve for project costs that may not be realizable based upon an estimated probability of success of the project. Sunrise also capitalized certain indirect costs to active projects where such costs were not clearly related to those projects. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 67, Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects (“SFAS 67”), preacquisition costs must be expensed as incurred unless: (i) the costs are directly identifiable with a specific property; (ii) the costs would be capitalized if the property were already acquired; and (iii) acquisition of the property is probable. In addition, indirect costs that are not clearly related to projects should be expensed as incurred. Sunrise has now capitalized only those costs that meet the criteria set forth above and has allocated such costs to specifically identifiable projects. In addition, Sunrise has historically capitalized direct and indirect costs relating to the sales and marketing of condominium units which were being developed for sale to residents. SFAS 67 allows for capitalization of costs for tangible assets used throughout the selling process and other direct costs where their recovery is reasonably expected from future sales. Sunrise now capitalizes only those direct costs that are reasonably expected to be recovered from future sales and has charged all indirect costs (advertising, promotion, etc.) to expense as incurred. Tangible assets that are expected to be recovered through future sales continue to be capitalized. Accounting for Equity Method Investments with Preferences Sunrise historically recognized its share of profit or loss of ventures which it accounts for using the equity method of accounting based on the percentage of Sunrise’s legal ownership interest in the venture. In accordance with Statement of Position No. 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures, (“SOP 78-9”) the allocation of profit and losses should be analyzed to determine how an increase and decrease in net assets of the venture (determined in conformity with GAAP) will affect cash payments to the investor over the life of the venture and on its liquidation. Because certain venture agreements contain preferences with regard to cash flows from operations, capital events and/or liquidation, the allocation of profits and losses previously recorded by Sunrise was not consistent with the provisions of SOP 78-9. Sunrise has restated its accounting to reflect its share of profits and losses by determining the difference between its “claim on the investee’s book value” at the end and the beginning of the period. This claim is calculated as the amount that the investor would receive (or be obligated to pay) if the investee were to liquidate all of its assets at recorded amounts determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and distribute the resulting cash to creditors and investors in accordance with their respective priorities. This method is commonly referred to as the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. Revenue Recognition for Greystone Contracts Included in “Professional fees from development, marketing and other” are fees earned by our Greystone subsidiary related to its development consulting agreements. From the acquisition date of May 10, 2005 through December 31, 2005, revenues were recognized based on billing milestones scheduled in the agreements. During the course of the Accounting Review Sunrise determined that these were multiple element arrangements and since there is not sufficient objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered elements at each billing milestone, 62 revenue recognition must be deferred until the completion of the development contract. The adjustment to operating revenues for 2005 was a reduction of $13.0 million. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Overview The stock option review performed by the Special Independent Committee focused on the Company’s stock option grants that appeared to have the highest risk of having the measurement date “back-dated”. In addition, the Special Independent Committee performed a limited review of 24 other grant dates. As indicated above, the Special Independent Committee found no evidence of backdating or other intentional misconduct with respect to the grants on the 38 grant dates examined or the possible errors identified by the Special Independent Committee in the accounting for stock options. Following completion of this portion of the Special Independent Committee’s inquiry, the Company hired outside consultants to review the results of the inquiry and determine the accounting impact. The following table summarizes the break-down between the granting dates reviewed as part of the restatement. Number of Number of Number of Category of Stock Option Grants Granting Dates Awards Shares Grants with key focus of the Special Independent Committee inquiry 14 1,915 11,844,392 Grants with limited review by the Special Independent Committee 24 2,558 12,785,072 Additional grants tested by the Company as a result of certain procedures performed during the Special Independent Committee inquiry 14 36 666,150 Remaining granting dates reviewed by the Company 13 36 352,350 Total 65 4,545 25,647,964 The foregoing review encompassed all grants made by the Company from the date of the Company’s initial public offering (June 5, 1996), excluding options acquired as part of business combinations. This review identified several categories of misapplication of accounting rules. As a result, new measurement dates and/or additional compensation expense have been recognized for these situations. A summary of the restatement as it relates to accounting for stock options is as follows (in thousands): Cumulative Amount of Restatement Adjustments Category of Restatement (pre-tax) September 14, 1998 Stock Option Repricing $ 27,302 Cancellation and Reissuance of Stock Options 6,144 Modification of Stock Option Awards 2,578 Grant of Stock Options to CEO 3,213 Other Miscellaneous Stock Option Issues 4,274 $ 43,511 The stock compensation expense is offset by an increase to contributed capital so there is no net impact to total stockholders’ equity resulting from this restatement adjustment. 63 September 14, 1998 Stock Option Repricing On September 14, 1998, the Stock Option Committee granted replacement options to all employees, officers and directors who held outstanding stock options with an exercise price above $14.50 per share. The replacement options had an exercise price of $12.50 per share. The vesting terms and all other operative terms, other than the exercise price, remained the same, except for an increase in the vesting period for four officers. The original options were not canceled and the replacement options were not issued until Sunrise received the signed offer letter back from the optionee. The signed offer letter constituted an irrevocable acceptance of the terms and conditions of the replacement options. The signed offer letters were received by Sunrise on various dates in late 1998 and early 1999. Sunrise’s historical accounting did not recognize any compensation expense associated with this modification to reduce the exercise price nor did Sunrise recognize any compensation expense associated with this repricing pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, (“FIN 44”), when Sunrise began applying its provisions on July 1, 2000. As a result of the Special Independent Committee review and related Accounting Review performed by the Company, Sunrise has determined that the measurement date for the replacement stock options should have been the date that the Company acknowledged receipt of the signed offer letter for each optionee from the employees, officers and/or directors. Accordingly, the accounting has been adjusted to reflect the revised measurement date. For offer letters received and acknowledged by Sunrise prior to December 15, 1998, Sunrise has determined the appropriate intrinsic value, as required under APB 25 and its interpretations, and recognized additional compensation expense over the stock options remaining vesting period. For offer letters received on December 15, 1998 or later, in addition to the determination of intrinsic value to recognize over the remaining vesting period, as of July 1, 2000 and the adoption of FIN 44, Sunrise has recognized additional compensation expense under the variable method of accounting. Under the variable method of accounting, compensation expense is adjusted each reporting period based on changes in the quoted market value of the stock. As part of the assessment of the revised measurement date for the replacement options discussed above, Sunrise reviewed the date the employees signed the offer letter, the date the Company noted receipt of the letter by annotation on the letter, if available, and the date the Company entered the data into its stock option database. The Company determined that the date receipt of the letter was documented by Sunrise was the date that the offer was accepted and irrevocable. As such, this was used as the revised measurement date. However, the results of the inquiry could not determine with accuracy if this date represented the actual receipt date or the date the replacement option information was entered into the stock option database. As such, we have reviewed the range of dates and related stock price between the dates the employee signed their offer letter through the date the letter was acknowledged to be received by Sunrise. If we had used the highest closing price of our common stock within the date range, our stock-based compensation expense adjustment relating to these grants would have increased by approximately $1.0 million, from $27.3 million to $28.3 million. Conversely, if we had used the lowest closing price of our common stock within the date range, our stock-based compensation expense adjustment relating to these grants would have decreased by approximately $0.7 million, from $27.3 million to $26.6 million. Cancellation and Reissuance of Stock Options From 1999 through 2001, Sunrise entered into several agreements with employees and officers to either cancel certain stock options and grant replacement options in the future, or grant new stock options with the agreement that the employee or officer would voluntarily cancel previously issued stock options in the future. The canceled options had exercise prices that were significantly above the then-current market price of Sunrise stock (i.e., the stock options were “out-of-the-money”). Sunrise’s historical accounting did not recognize any compensation expense because the exercise price of the options issued was equal to the then-current fair value of the Sunrise’s common stock on the grant date. FIN 44 clarified and interpreted several aspects of APB 25 that had been previously applied inconsistently by companies. One issue addressed by FIN 44 was how to account for an option that is canceled where, concurrently, Sunrise agrees (through an oral or written agreement or implicit promise) to make a replacement option grant sometime in the future, or Sunrise issues new options with a prearranged agreement to cancel certain options in the 64 future. If the employee or the officer was not subject to market risk or volatility of Sunrise’s stock for a specified period, variable accounting is required for the replacement option. Modification of Stock Option Awards From 1998 through 2005, Sunrise entered into agreements with employees to modify specific terms under the stock option agreement to allow for accelerated vesting of options or the extension of the expiration period of vested options. These modifications allowed employees to exercise options that they would not otherwise have been able to exercise. In such situations, Sunrise should have recognized compensation expense for the difference between the modified options’ exercise price and the fair market value of our common stock on the date of modification. However, this charge was not properly recorded in our historical financial statements. Grant of Stock Options to CEO During 2000, the Compensation Committee of Sunrise’s Board of Directors negotiated an employment agreement with our CEO, Paul Klaassen. As part of the employment agreement, our CEO was granted 700,000 options. While approval by the Compensation Committee occurred in September 2000, the final required granting action was approval of the employment agreement by the Board of Directors, which did not occur until November 2000. In that time period, the fair value of our common stock increased. In 2000, Sunrise did not record this additional compensation expense. Sunrise has determined that additional compensation expense totaled approximately $3.2 million on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2004. All of this expense related to periods prior to 2004. Other Miscellaneous Stock Option Issues The Special Independent Committee inquiry and related review by our consultants also identified several other less significant measurement date issues of approximately $4.3 million that were corrected. Sensitivity Analysis As a result of the inquiry performed by the Special Independent Committee on the 38 specific grant dates, we concluded that, based on all the evidence available, the historical grant date used by the Company was the appropriate measurement date for the majority of our grants. Those for which a new measurement date was required have been discussed above. The conclusions we reached are based upon our interpretations of the information obtained as a result of the inquiry and other information available at the Company. Other interpretations different from those used by us regarding the timing of the revised measurement dates would have resulted in different compensation expense charges than those recorded by us in the restatement. We, therefore, prepared a sensitivity analysis to determine the hypothetical minimum and maximum compensation expense charge that could occur if different judgments were used to determine the revised measurement dates. In reviewing all available data, we considered other possible alternative grant dates for determining a sensitivity analysis, but were unable to find any such data or evidence that would provide an alternative we believed to be better than the one we selected. We applied our sensitivity methodology on a grant date by grant date basis to determine the largest possible variations in stock-based compensation expense within a range of possible approval dates for each grant event. We developed this range by generally using the historical grant date as the earliest possible measurement date and the date the option information was entered into our stock option database as the last possible measurement date. Based on all available evidence, such as, for example, unanimous written consents, email dates, and Board of Director or committee meeting dates, we were unable to identify dates that would provide a more reasonable range of dates for this sensitivity analysis. While we believe the evidence and methodology used to conclude that the historical grant date is the most appropriate, we also believe that illustrating differences in stock-based compensation expense using this alternative date range provides some insight into the extent to which stock-based compensation expense would have fluctuated if we chose other dates. After developing the range for each grant event, we selected the highest closing price of our stock within the range and calculated the difference in stock-based compensation expense to determine the maximum possible compensation expense. We then selected the lowest closing price within the range and calculated the difference in 65 stock-based compensation expense to determine the minimum possible compensation expense. If the low closing price was less than the closing price on the original date of grant, there was no resulting compensation charge. We compared these aggregated amounts to the stock-based compensation that we had historically recorded in our financial statements, which was zero. If we had used the highest closing price of our stock within the range, our total restated stock-based compensation adjustment would have been increased by approximately $25.5 million, pre-tax. Conversely, had we used the lowest closing price of our stock within the range, our total restated compensation expense would have increased by $1.6 million, pre-tax. Accounting for Reimbursed Expenses Consistent with EITF No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent (“EITF 99-19”), expenses incurred by Sunrise and reimbursed by a managed community are reported as community contract services reimbursement expense with corresponding reimbursement revenue in Sunrise’s Consolidated Statements of Income. Sunrise manages most of its communities under contracts which provide for payment to Sunrise of a monthly management fee plus reimbursement of certain operating expenses, including payroll and related expenses of Sunrise employees, and food, supplies or services acquired by Sunrise for the communities. Sunrise has determined that errors occurred in the accumulation of these amounts resulting in an overstatement of the reported costs and related reimbursement revenue. Sunrise has adjusted both reimbursed expenses and revenues in the restated statements of income to correct these errors. The adjustments of these amounts had no impact on previously reported pre-tax income. Other Adjustments Sunrise also adjusted its financial statements for other less significant adjustments that were found as part of the Accounting Review, including interest capitalized on equity method investments, health insurance reimbursements, accounting for certain guarantees, income taxes and accounting for variable interest entities. None of these adjustments are individually in excess of 3% of the total cumulative net income impact. The financial information presented in this Form 10-K has been adjusted to reflect the incremental impact resulting from the restatement adjustments discussed above, as follows (in thousands): Equity Cost of Method Real Real Investments Greystone Total Tax Total Estate Estate with Stock-Based Revenue Other Adjustments Effects of Adjustments Year Sales Projects Preferences Compensation Recognition Adjustments Pre-Tax Adjustments Net of Tax 1996 (unaudited) $ — $ — $ — $ (92 ) $ — $ — $ (92 ) $ 36 $ (56 ) 1997 (unaudited) 67 — — (770 ) — — (703 ) 274 (429 ) 1998 (unaudited) (772 ) — — (4,087 ) — — (4,859 ) 1,895 (2,964 ) 1999 (unaudited) (12,141 ) — — (12,336 ) — — (24,477 ) 9,546 (14,931 ) 2000 (unaudited) (24,345 ) (743 ) (26,850 ) (7,929 ) — (1,268 ) (61,135 ) 23,033 (38,102 ) 2001 (unaudited) (13,924 ) (1,600 ) 22,974 (7,583 ) — (1,366 ) (1,499 ) 1,119 (380 ) 2002 (unaudited) (28,148 ) (4,168 ) 962 (3,547 ) — (5,064 ) (39,965 ) 13,618 (26,347 ) 2003 (unaudited) (57,942 ) (2,197 ) (4,016 ) (4,224 ) — (8,369 ) (76,748 ) 29,279 (47,469 ) Cumulative effect on Jan. 1, 2004 opening retained earnings (137,205 ) (8,708 ) (6,930 ) (40,568 ) — (16,067 ) (209,478 ) 78,800 (130,678 ) 2004 (57,259 ) (5,036 ) (4,112 ) (688 ) — (12,731 ) (79,826 ) 32,255 (47,571 ) 2005 48,893 (2,336 ) (4,024 ) (2,255 ) (13,034 ) (11,645 ) 15,599 (10,252 ) 5,347 Total $ (145,571 ) $ (16,080 ) $ (15,066 ) $ (43,511 ) $ (13,034 ) $ (40,443 ) $ (273,705 ) $ 100,803 $ (172,902 ) Significant Developments See Item 1. “Business” for a discussion of significant developments in 2006, 2007 and 2008. 66 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Investments in Unconsolidated Communities We hold a minority equity interest in ventures established to develop or acquire and own senior living communities. Those ventures are generally limited liability companies or limited partnerships. Our equity interest in these ventures generally ranges from 10% to 50%. We review all of our ventures to determine if they are variable interest entities (“VIEs”). If a venture is a variable interest entity and if we determine we are the primary beneficiary, which is the variable interest holder that absorbs the majority of the ventures expected losses, receives a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, or both, we consolidate the variable interest entity. At December 31, 2006, we consolidated eight VIEs in which we determined we were the primary beneficiary. We are the general partner or managing member for many of our ventures. We consolidate these ventures unless the limited partners or other members have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the venture or otherwise remove the general partner or managing member without cause or (2) substantive participating rights in significant decisions of the venture, including authorizing operating and capital decisions of the venture, including budgets, in the ordinary course of business. We have reviewed all our ventures that are not VIEs where we are the general partner or managing member and have determined that in all cases the limited partners or other members have substantive participating rights such as those set forth above. Therefore, none of these ventures are consolidated. For ventures not consolidated, we apply the equity method of accounting. Equity method investments are initially recorded at cost and subsequently are adjusted for our share of the venture’s earnings or losses and cash distributions. We analyze the allocation of profit and losses to determine how increases and decreases in net assets of our ventures will affect cash payments to us and our venture partners over the life of the venture and upon liquidation of the ventures. Because certain venture agreements contain preferences with regard to cash flows from operations, capital events and/or liquidation, we reflect our share of profits and losses by determining the difference between our “claim on the investee’s book value” at the end and the beginning of the period. This claim is calculated as the amount that we would receive (or be obligated to pay) if the investee were to liquidate all of its assets at recorded amounts determined in accordance with GAAP and distribute the resulting cash to creditors and investors in accordance with their respective priorities. This method is commonly referred to as the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. Sunrise’s reported share of earnings is adjusted for basis differences between our carrying value of the equity investment and our share of the venture’s underlying assets. We generally do not have future requirements to contribute additional capital over and above the original capital commitments, and, therefore we discontinue applying the equity method of accounting when our investment is reduced to zero barring any expectation of an imminent return to profitability. If the venture subsequently reports net income, the equity method of accounting is resumed only after our share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. When the majority equity partner in one of our ventures sells its equity interest to a third party, the venture frequently refinances its senior debt and distributes the net proceeds to the equity partners. All distributions received by us are first recorded as a reduction of our investment. Next, we record a liability for any contractual or implied future financial support to the venture including through our role as a general partner. Any remaining distributions are recorded as “Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities.” We capitalize interest incurred on qualifying assets for development projects including our investment in ventures accounted for using the equity method while the investee has activities in progress necessary to commence its planned principal operations. The investment ceases to be a qualifying asset when the investee’s planned principal operations begin, after which we expense interest as incurred. 67 We evaluate realization of our investment in ventures accounted for using the equity method if circumstances indicate that our investment is other than temporarily impaired. Real Estate Sales For sale transactions meeting the requirements for full accrual profit recognition, we remove the related assets and liabilities from our consolidated balance sheet and we record the gain or loss in the period the transaction closes. For sales transactions that do not contain continuing involvement or if the continuing involvement with the property is limited by the terms of the sales contract, we recognize profit at the time of sale. This profit is then reduced by our maximum exposure to loss related to the contractually limited continuing involvement. Sales to entities in which we have an interest are accounted for as partial sales. For sales transactions that do not meet the full accrual sale criteria due to continuing involvement, we evaluate the nature of the continuing involvement and account for the transaction under an alternate method of accounting rather than as a full accrual sale, based on the nature and extent of our continuing involvement. Some transactions may have numerous forms of continuing involvement. In those cases, we determine which method is most appropriate based on the substance of the transaction. Our venture agreements may contain provisions which provide us with an option or obligation to repurchase the property from the venture at a fixed price at an amount that is higher than the sales price. In these instances, presuming we expect to exercise the options, we follow the financing method of accounting. Under the financing method of accounting, we record the amounts received from the buyer as a financing obligation and continue to keep the property and related accounts recorded on our books. The results of operations of the property, net of expenses other than depreciation (net operating income), is reflected as “interest expense” on the financing obligation. Because these transactions include an option or obligation to repurchase the asset at a higher price, we record interest expense to accrete the liability to the repurchase price. We continue to record depreciation expense as a period expense. We record all cash paid or received by us as an adjustment to the financing obligation. If the repurchase options or obligations expire and all other criteria for profit recognition under the full accrual method have been met, we record the transaction as a sale at that time and we recognize the resulting gain. In transactions accounted by us as partial sales, we determine if the buyer of the majority equity interest in the venture was provided a preference as to cash flows in either an operating or a capital waterfall. If a cash flow preference has been provided, we recognize profit, including our development fee, only to the extent that proceeds from the sale of the majority equity interest exceed costs related to the entire property. We also may provide a guarantee to support the operations of the properties. If the guarantees are for an extended period of time, we apply the profit-sharing method and we maintain the property on our books, net of any cash proceeds received from the buyer. If support is required for a limited period of time, sale accounting is achieved and we recognize profit on the sale on the basis of performance of the services required beginning when there is reasonable assurance that future operating revenues will cover operating expenses and debt service. Under the profit sharing method, the property portion of our net remaining investment is amortized over the life of the community’s fixed assets. We record as “Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method” in the consolidated statements of income, the results of operations of the communities before depreciation and after elimination of fees paid to us. We add the operating income to our investment account and we reflect losses as a reduction of our investment account. We reflect as profit-sharing expense distributions of operating cash flows to other venture partners. All cash paid or received by us, we record as an adjustment to the investment account. We have provided a guaranteed return on investment to certain buyers of properties. When the guarantee is for an extended period of time, sale accounting is precluded and we apply the profit-sharing method. If the guarantee is required for a limited period of time, we follow the deposit method of accounting until operations of the property cover all operating expenses, debt service, and contractual payments, at which time we recognize profit under the performance of services method. Under the deposit method, we do not recognize any profit, and continue to report the property and related debt in our consolidated financial statements even if the debt has been assumed by the buyer, and we disclose those items that are subject to a sales contract. We continue to record depreciation expense. We record, as an adjustment to the 68 deposit, all cash paid or received by us. When the transaction qualifies for profit recognition under the full accrual method, we discontinue application of the deposit method and we recognize the gain provided that we have no other forms of continuing involvement. Revenue Recognition for Professional Fees from Development Activities We may receive professional fees from development activities for services provided prior to the opening of an unconsolidated community. Our development fees related to building design and construction oversight are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method and the portion related to marketing services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the services are provided. The cost-to-cost method is used to measure the extent of progress toward completion for purposes of calculating the percentage of completion portion of the revenues. Greystone’s development revenue is recognized upon completion of the project. Capitalization Related to Development Projects We expense preacquisition costs as incurred until we determine that the costs are directly identifiable with a specific property, the costs would be capitalized if the property were already acquired, and acquisition of the property or an option to acquire the property is probable. Upon acquisition of the land, we commence capitalization of all direct and indirect project costs clearly associated with the development and construction of the community. We expense indirect costs that are not clearly related to projects as incurred and we charge direct costs to the projects to which they relate. If a project is abandoned, we expense any costs previously capitalized. Capitalized costs are subject to impairment under SFAS 144. We capitalize the cost of the corporate development department based on the time employees devote to each project. We also capitalize interest and other carrying costs to the project and the capitalization period continues until the asset is ready for its intended use or is abandoned. Our calculation includes interest costs that theoretically could have been avoided, based on specific borrowings to the extent there are specific borrowings. When project specific borrowings do not exist or are less than the amount of qualifying assets, our calculation for such excess uses a weighted average of all debt outstanding. We capitalize the cost of tangible assets used throughout the selling process and other direct costs, provided that their recovery is reasonably expected from future sales. Loss Reserves For Certain Self-Insured Programs We offer a variety of insurance programs to the communities we operate. These programs include property insurance, general and professional liability insurance, excess/umbrella liability insurance, crime insurance, automobile liability and physical damage insurance, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability insurance and employment practices liability insurance (“Insurance Program”). Each community we operate is charged its proportionate share of the cost of the Insurance Program. We utilize large deductible blanket insurance programs in order to contain costs for certain of the lines of insurance risks in the Insurance Program including workers’ compensation and employers’ liability risks, automobile liability risk, employment practices liability risk and general and professional liability risks (“Self-Insured Risks”). The design and purpose of a large deductible insurance program is to reduce overall premium and claim costs by internally financing lower cost claims that are more predictable from year to year, while buying insurance only for higher-cost, less predictable claims. We have self-insured a portion of the Self-Insured Risks through a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary, Sunrise Senior Living Insurance, Inc. (“SSLII”). SSLII issues policies of insurance to and receives premiums from Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. that are reimbursed through expense allocation to each operated community and the Company. SSLII pays the costs for each claim above a deductible up to a per claim limit. Third-party insurers are responsible for claim costs above this limit. These third-party insurers carry an A.M. Best rating of A-/VII or better. We accrued $114.4 million and $84.2 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, for the estimated costs of the Self-Insured Risks. $41.4 million and $21.4 million, respectively, of these balances are classified as current 69 liabilities, and at December 31, 2006 and 2005, $73 million and $62.8 million, respectively, of these balances are classified as long-term liabilities. We record outstanding losses and expenses for the Self-Insured Risks and for claims under insurance policies issued by SCIC based on the recommendations of an independent actuary and management’s judgment. We believe that the allowance for outstanding losses and expenses is appropriate to cover the ultimate cost of losses incurred at December 31, 2006, but the allowance may ultimately be settled for a greater or lesser amount. Any subsequent changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they are determined. We offer our employees an option to participate in self-insured health and dental plans. The cost of Sunrise employee health and dental benefits, net of employee contributions, is shared by us and the communities based on the respective number of participants working directly either at Sunrise’s corporate headquarters or at the communities. Funds collected are used to pay the actual program costs. Including estimated annual claims, third-party administrative fees, network provider fees, communication costs, and other related administrative costs incurred by us. Although claims under this plan are self-insured, we have aggregate protection which caps the potential liability for both individual and total claims during a plan year. Claims are paid as they are submitted to the plan administrator. We also record a liability for outstanding claims and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. This liability is based on the historical claim reporting lag and payment trends of health insurance claims and is based on the recommendations of an independent actuary. This liability for self insured incurred but not yet reported claims for the self insured health and dental plan is included in “Accrued expenses” in the consolidated balance sheets and was $9.7 million and $11.9 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We believe that the liability for outstanding losses and expenses is appropriate to cover the ultimate cost of losses incurred at December 31, 2006, but actual claims may differ. We record any subsequent changes in estimates in the period in which they are determined and will share with the communities participating in the insurance programs based on their proportionate share of any changes in estimates. Valuation of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets We review the carrying amounts of intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when indicators of impairment are identified. If the carrying amount of the long-lived asset (group) exceeds the undiscounted expected cash flows that are directly associated with the use and eventual disposition of the asset (group) we record an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset (group). We evaluate the fair value of goodwill to assess potential impairment on an annual basis or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. We evaluate the fair value of goodwill at the reporting unit level and make that determination based upon future cash flow projects that assume certain growth projections which may or may not occur. We record an impairment loss for goodwill when the carrying value is less than its estimated fair value. Accounting for Guarantees Guarantees entered into in connection with the sale of real estate often prevent us from either accounting for the transaction as a sale of an asset or recognizing in earnings the profit from the sale transaction. Guarantees not entered into in connection with the sale of real estate are considered financial instruments. For guarantees considered financial instruments, we recognize at the inception of a guarantee or the date of modification, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing a guarantee. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the estimated liability based on the operating results and the terms of the guarantee. If it is probable that we will be required to fund additional amounts than previously estimated, a loss is recorded. Fundings that are recoverable as a loan from a venture are considered in the determination of the fair value of the stand ready obligation and the contingent loss recorded. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes. We record the current year amounts payable or refundable, as well as the consequences of events that give rise to deferred tax assets and 70 liabilities based on differences in how these events are treated for tax purposes. We base our estimate of deferred tax assets and liabilities on current tax laws and rates and, in certain cases, business plans and other expectations about future outcomes. Changes in existing laws and rate, and their related interpretations, and future business results may affect the amount of deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents management’s best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Results of Operations We currently derive our consolidated operating revenues from the following sources: • management services provided to operating and pre-opened communities for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners including reimbursable contract services (which represents the reimbursement of community contract services expense); • professional services from development, marketing and other; • resident and ancillary fees for the delivery of senior living services to our consolidated communities; and • hospice and other ancillary services. Operating expenses are classified into the following categories: • development and venture expense for site selection, zoning, community design, construction management and financing incurred for development communities; • community and ancillary expense, which includes labor, food, marketing and other direct community expenses for our consolidated communities; • lease expense for certain consolidated communities; • general and administrative expense related to headquarters and regional staff expenses and other administrative costs; • loss on financial guarantees; • provision for doubtful accounts; • impairment of long-lived assets; • depreciation and amortization; • write-off of unamortized contract costs; and • reimbursable contract service expense related to unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners. Since 1997, we have entered into various real estate transactions, the most significant of which involved either (i) the sale of a partial interest in a development venture in which Sunrise retained an interest and entered into a management contract or (ii) the sale of mature senior living properties or a partial interest in such properties to a third party where Sunrise simultaneously entered into a management contract. In most cases, Sunrise retained some form of continuing involvement including providing preferences to the buyer of the real estate, an obligation to complete the development, operating deficit funding obligations, support obligations or, in some instances, options or obligations to reacquire the property or the buyer’s interest in the property. We account for these transactions in accordance with FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate (“SFAS 66”). 71 Our results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31 were as follows: % Change Year Ended December 31, 2006 vs 2005 vs 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 (Restated) (Restated) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Operating revenue: Management fees $ 120,064 $ 104,823 $ 87,505 14.5 % 19.8 % Buyout fees(1) 134,730 83,036 — 62.3 % N/A Professional fees from development, marketing and other 25,717 24,920 10,949 3.2 % 127.6 % Resident and ancillary fees 455,909 384,667 366,624 18.5 % 4.9 % Reimbursable contract services 911,979 911,992 802,562 — 13.6 % Total operating revenue 1,648,399 1,509,438 1,267,640 9.2 % 19.1 % Operating expenses: Development and venture expense 70,474 41,966 23,345 67.9 % 79.8 % Community and ancillary 351,600 296,109 275,957 18.7 % 7.3 % Community lease expense 50,966 49,770 46,978 2.4 % 5.9 % General and administrative 134,073 106,601 86,080 25.8 % 23.8 % Loss on financial guarantees 89,676 — — N/A N/A Provision for doubtful accounts 14,632 1,675 2,325 773.6 % (28.0 )% Impairment of long-lived assets 15,730 2,472 — 536.3 % N/A Depreciation and amortization 48,648 42,981 40,027 13.2 % 7.4 % Write-off of unamortized contract costs 25,359 14,609 — 73.6 % N/A Reimbursable contract services 911,979 911,992 802,562 — 13.6 % Total operating expenses 1,713,137 1,468,175 1,277,274 16.7 % 14.9 % (Loss) income from operations (64,738 ) 41,263 (9,634 ) (256.9 )% (528.3 )% Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 9,577 6,231 5,590 53.7 % 11.5 % Interest expense (6,204 ) (11,882 ) (12,315 ) (47.8 )% (3.5 )% (Loss) gain on investments (5,610 ) 2,036 — (375.5 )% N/A Other income 6,706 3,105 4,111 116.0 % (24.5 )% Total other non-operating income (expense) 4,469 (510 ) (2,614 ) (976.3 )% (80.5 )% Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 51,347 81,723 14,025 (37.2 )% 482.7 % Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 43,702 13,472 1,508 224.4 % 793.4 % Loss from investments accounted for under the profit sharing method (857 ) (857 ) (1,578 ) 0 % (45.7 )% Minority interest income (expense) 6,916 6,721 (1,078 ) 2.9 % (723.5 )% Income before provision for income taxes 40,839 141,812 629 (71.2 )% NM (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (20,482 ) (54,723 ) 485 (62.57 )% NM Net income $ 20,357 $ 87,089 $ 1,114 (76.6 )% NM Basic net income per common share $ 0.42 $ 2.10 $ 0.03 (79.5 )% NM Diluted net income per common share 0.40 1.82 $ 0.03 (78 )% NM Total communities Consolidated 65 62 60 4.8 % 3.3 % Unconsolidated 183 156 125 17.3 % 24.8 % Managed 192 197 195 (2.5 )% 1.0 % Total 440 415 380 6.0 % 9.2 % Resident capacity 52,170 50,673 43,109 3.0 % 17.5 % (1) In 2006, Five Star bought out 18 contracts and we received $134.7 million related to their buyout and wrote-off the remaining $25.4 million unamortized management contract intangible asset. In 2005, Five Star bought out 72 12 management contracts and we received $83.0 million related to their buyout and wrote-off the remaining $13.8 million unamortized management contract intangible asset. In 2006, we continued to capitalize on our brand and management services experience by entering into new management and professional services contracts internationally and domestically. The number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners increased from 353 in 2005 to 375 in 2006, or 6%. In 2006, we increased the number of consolidated communities from 62 to 65 due to the acquisition of three CCRCs, the opening of one community that was later sold to a venture, the disposition of two acquired communities and the acquisition of our non-operating community in New Orleans, Louisiana, that was damaged during Hurricane Katrina, which was previously owned by an unconsolidated venture. Additionally, 24 management contracts were terminated. In September 2006, we acquired Trinity as the first step in our strategy to offer hospice services to our residents and their families. The number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners increased from 320 in 2004 to 353 in 2005, or 10%. In 2005, we increased the number of consolidated communities from 60 to 62. Additionally, 12 management contracts were bought out. Our buyout fees in 2005 include $83.0 million related to the buyout of contracts by Five Star. Net income decreased to $20.4 million in 2006, or $0.40 per share (diluted) from $87.1 million, or $1.82 per share (diluted) in 2005, primarily due to: • receipt of $134.7 million in 2006 in connection with the buyout of 18 management contracts as compared to the receipt of $83.0 million received from Five Star in 2005 in connection with the buyout of 12 management contracts; • an increase of $30.2 million in “Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities” in 2006 related to three venture recapitalizations; • a loss on financial guarantees of $89.7 million related to operating deficit agreements in Germany, cash shortfall guarantees for the Fountains Portfolio and a loss related to construction cost overrun guarantees on a condominium project; • an increase of $28.5 million in “Development and venture expense” which is largely attributed to our acquisition of Greystone and our accelerated development efforts; • an increase in the provision for doubtful accounts of $13.0 million in 2006 primarily related to the write off of a receivable resulting from prior fundings under a guarantee which was previously determined to be collectible; • an increase in general and administrative expense of $27.5 million; • recognition of impairment losses of $15.7 million in 2006 compared to $2.5 million in 2005 relating to communities whose carrying amounts were less then their expected cash flows; • a write-off of $25.4 million in 2006 as compared to $14.6 million in 2005 primarily with respect to the intangible assets related to the Five Star management contracts; and • a decrease of $30.4 million in “Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests.” Net income increased to $87.1 million in 2005, or $1.82 per share (diluted) from $1.1 million, or $0.03 per share (diluted) in 2004. The increase in net income was primarily due to the receipt of the $83.0 million in buyout fees, a $14 million increase in professional fees, an increase in gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests of $67.7 million, which was partially offset by a $20.2 million increase in community and ancillary expenses, an $18.6 million increase in development and venture expense, a $20.5 million increase in general and administrative costs and an increase of $10.8 million to write-off of unamortized contract costs. 73 Operating Revenue Management fees 2006 Compared to 2005 Management fees revenue was $120.1 million in 2006 compared to $104.8 million in 2005, an increase of $15.3 million, or 14.6%. This increase was primarily comprised of: • $6.9 million of incremental revenues in 2006 from 31 management contracts obtained in 2005 from the Greystone and The Fountains acquisitions that were included for a full year in 2006; • $7.7 million from increased fees associated with existing communities due to increases in rates and occupancy; • $4.8 million of incremental revenues from 36 new communities managed in 2006 for unconsolidated ventures and third parties that were included for a full year in 2006; • $2.8 million increase due to fees collected for services related to recapitalizing, refinancing or assisting in the sale of senior living communities; • $2.3 million decrease in guarantee amortization due to the expirations of guarantees in 2006; • $9.7 million decrease due to contract terminations in 2005; and • $5.1 million of incremental revenues from international communities. 2005 Compared to 2004 Management fees revenue was $104.8 million in 2005 compared to $87.5 million in 2004, an increase of $17.3 million, or 19.8%. The increase in management fees revenue was primarily comprised of: • $6.4 million from 31 management contracts obtained in 2005 from the Greystone and The Fountains acquisitions; • $9.1 million from increased fees associated with existing communities due to increases in rates and occupancy; and • $1.9 million from 20 new communities managed in 2005 for unconsolidated ventures and third parties (other than the Greystone and The Fountains acquisitions). Buyout fees In 2006, Five Star bought out 18 contracts for a total buyout fee of $134.7 million. In 2005, Five Star terminated 12 management contracts for a total buyout fee of $83.0 million. Professional fees from development, marketing and other 2006 Compared to 2005 Professional fees from development, marketing and other revenue was $25.7 million in 2006 compared to $24.9 million in 2005, an increase of $0.8 million, or 3.2%. Although development activity in 2006 was higher, the majority of fees are in conjunction with the sale of real estate and will be recognized in “Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests” when all forms of continuing involvement have ended. In addition we billed and collected $14.4 million and $21.6 million of development fees for Greystone in 2005 and 2006, respectively, most of which was deferred. 74 2005 Compared to 2004 Professional fees from development, marketing and other revenue was $24.9 million in 2005 compared to $10.9 million in 2004, an increase of $14.0 million, or 128.4%. This increase was primarily comprised of: • $10.2 million from an additional 13 communities under development in 2005 compared to 2004; and • a decrease of $2.1 million from financing fees received in 2004 for securing debt on behalf of Sunrise REIT. • the remaining increase was largely due to an increase in international development. Resident and ancillary fees 2006 Compared to 2005 Resident and ancillary fees were $455.9 million in 2006 compared to $384.7 million in 2005, an increase of $71.2 million, or 18.5%. This increase was primarily comprised of: • $47.8 million from existing consolidated communities of which $43.5 million is due to increases in rate and $4.3 million is due to increases in occupancy; • $20.6 million from the acquisition of Trinity in the third quarter of 2006; • $4.1 million from the acquisition of three consolidated communities; and • $1.3 million decrease from the disposition of two consolidated communities in 2006. 2005 Compared to 2004 Resident and ancillary fees were $384.7 million in 2005 compared to $366.6 million in 2004, an increase of $18.1 million, or 4.9%. This increase was primarily comprised of: • $35.3 million from existing communities resulting from increases in occupancy, average daily rates and other ancillary services; • a decrease of $8.7 million due to the deconsolidation of a VIE; • a decrease of $10.2 million from the sale of four consolidated communities to Sunrise REIT in December 2004. Revenue from these communities is now included in “Management fees”; • $6.3 million from the acquisition of two consolidated communities and other ancillary services in 2005 and 2004; and • a decrease of $4.6 million from the closing of four consolidated communities in 2004. Reimbursable contract services Reimbursable contract services were $912.0 million in 2006 and 2005. Reimbursable expenses increased $109.4 million from 2004 to 2005 due to the addition of new communities. There was no change primarily due to the fact that the number of managed communities declined due to the Five Star contract buyouts. This decline was offset by acquisitions and new community openings. Operating Expenses Development and venture expense 2006 Compared to 2005 Development and venture expense was $70.5 million in 2006 as compared to $42.0 million in 2005. The increase in development and venture expense of $28.5 million, or 67.9%, was primarily comprised of: • $13.0 million from activity of Greystone that was included for a full year in 2006; 75 • $10.0 million from North American development. There were 29 North American communities under development in 2006 compared to 28 in 2005; and • $3.0 million from European development. The increase was primarily due to continuing development in the United Kingdom and the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and Euro from 2005 to 2006. 2005 Compared to 2004 Development and venture expense was $42.0 million in 2005 as compared to $23.3 million in 2004. The increase in development and venture expense of $18.7 million, or 80.3%, was primarily comprised of: • $14.3 million from the post acquisition activity of Greystone; • $3.6 million from European development. There were 28 European communities under development in 2005 compared to 17 communities under development in 2004; and • partially offset by a decrease of $2.7 million related to Canadian development and the completion of one Canadian community in 2005. Community and ancillary 2006 Compared to 2005 Community and ancillary expense was $351.6 million in 2006 as compared to $296.1 million in 2005. The increase in community and ancillary expense of $55.5 million, or 18.7%, was primarily comprised of: • $34.3 million from existing communities resulting primarily from increases in occupancy; • $18.5 million from the acquisition of Trinity hospice in the third quarter of 2006; • $4.0 million from the acquisition of three consolidated communities; • $1.0 million decrease from the closing of two consolidated communities in 2005. 2005 Compared to 2004 Community and ancillary expense was $296.1 million in 2005 as compared to $276.0 million in 2004. The increase in community and ancillary expense of $20.1 million, or 7.3%, was primarily comprised of: • $26.9 million from existing consolidated communities resulting primarily from increases in occupancy; • a decrease of $6.9 million from the sale of four consolidated communities to Sunrise REIT in December 2004; • $3.8 million from the acquisition of one consolidated community and other ancillary services from The Fountains; • $3.4 million from costs associated with hurricanes in 2005; • a decrease of $4.7 million due to the deconsolidation of a VIE; • a decrease of $3.6 million from the closure of four consolidated communities in 2004; and • $2.4 million from the acquisition of a consolidated community in the second quarter of 2004. Community lease expense 2006 Compared to 2005 Community lease expense was $51.0 million in 2006 as compared to $49.8 million in 2005. The increase in community lease expense of $1.2 million, or 2.4%, was primarily a result of increases in contingent rentals. 76 2005 Compared to 2004 Community lease expense was $49.8 million in 2005 as compared to $47.0 million in 2004. The increase in community lease expense of $2.8 million, or 5.9%, was primarily a result of increases in contingent rentals. General and administrative 2006 Compared to 2005 General and administrative expense was $134.1 million in 2006 as compared to $106.6 million in 2005. The increase in general and administrative expense of $27.5 million, or 25.8%, was primarily comprised of: • $9.0 million in salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage; • $4.7 million in accounting fees, of which $2.6 million relates to professional fees incurred related to the Company’s accounting restatement; • $5.0 million loss for possible damages related to the Trinity OIG investigation and qui tam action; • $5.1 million international expense to support new communities in Canada, the UK and Germany; • $1.8 million in transition costs for Five Star contracts; and • additional expense increases for telephone, repairs and maintenance, and other miscellaneous expenses. 2005 Compared to 2004 General and administrative expense was $106.6 million in 2005 as compared to $86.1 million in 2004. The increase in general and administrative expense of $20.5 million, or 23.8%, was primarily comprised of: • $13.4 million in salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage; • $6.0 million from software maintenance and related costs; • $3.3 million of integration costs relating to the Fountains acquisition; and • a decrease of $2.0 million related to the implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley internal control requirements from 2004. Loss on financial guarantees Loss on financial guarantees includes a $50.0 million loss related to funding of operating deficit shortfalls in Germany and $22.4 million related to cash shortfalls guarantees to The Fountains venture, both of which were recorded in 2006. Also in 2006, the Company recorded a $17.2 million loss related to construction cost overrun guarantees on a condominium project. There were no losses on financial guarantees in 2005 or 2004. Provision for doubtful accounts 2006 Compared to 2005 Provision for doubtful accounts was $14.6 million in 2006 as compared to $1.7 million in 2005. The increase of $12.9 million is primarily due to: • $8.0 million write-off of a receivable resulting from prior fundings under a guarantee which were previously deemed to be collectible; 77 2005 Compared to 2004 Provision for doubtful accounts was $1.7 million in 2005 as compared to $2.3 million in 2004. These amounts relate primarily to the provision for resident receivables. Impairment of long-lived assets Impairment losses were $15.7 million in 2006 compared to $2.5 million in 2005 relating to communities whose carrying amounts were not recoverable. There were no impairment losses in 2004. Depreciation and amortization 2006 Compared to 2005 Depreciation and amortization expense was $48.6 million in 2006 as compared to $43.0 million in 2005. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $5.6 million, or 13.0%, was primarily comprised of $6.7 million from fixed assets and software placed in service. 2005 Compared to 2004 Depreciation and amortization expense was $43.0 million in 2005 as compared to $40.0 million in 2004. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $3.0 million, or 7.5%, was primarily comprised of a $3.3 million increase from the amortization of intangible assets associated with the Greystone acquisition. Write-off of unamortized contract costs Write-off of unamortized contract costs was $25.4 million in 2006 and $14.6 million in 2005. These costs relate to the buyout of Five Star management contracts. There was no write-off of unamortized contract costs in 2004. Other Non-operating Income (Expense) 2006 Compared to 2005 Interest income increased $3.3 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. Interest expense decreased $5.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 as a result of lower outstanding debt resulting from the redemption of our 5.25% convertible subordinated notes in 2006 and decreased borrowings from Sunrise REIT, which was partially offset by increased borrowings under our Bank Credit Facility and higher mortgages and notes payable. During 2006, we had a $5.6 million loss on investments as compared to a gain on investments of $2.0 million in 2005. In 2006, we wrote down a $5.6 million note receivable due to non-collectability. In 2005, we realized a gain of $2.0 million on the sale of our investment in Sunrise REIT debentures. Other income increased approximately $3.6 million in 2006 from 2005 primarily as a result of $5 million of other income recorded in conjunction with our purchase of MSLS; which was partially offset by foreign exchange losses. 2005 Compared to 2004 Interest income increased $0.6 million as compared to 2004. Interest expense decreased $0.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily as a result of additional capitalized interest associated with increased development activity. Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests fluctuates depending on the timing of dispositions of communities and the satisfaction of certain operating contingencies and guarantees. 78 2006 Compared to 2005 Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $51.3 million in 2006 as compared to $81.7 million in 2005, or a decrease of $30.4 million. 2006 gains included $37.1 million in gains related to transactions which occurred in prior years for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement, $8.8 million in gains related to the sale of our venture interests in two ventures and $5.5 million in gains related to the sale of undeveloped land. 2005 Compared to 2004 Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $81.7 million in 2005 as compared to $14.0 million in 2004, or an increase of $67.7 million. 2005 gains included $81.9 million in gains related to transactions which occurred in prior years for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement. Sunrise’s Share of Earnings and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Communities Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities represents our allocation of the results of operations and returns on our investments from the distributions of proceeds from transactions with our unconsolidated ventures. 2006 Compared to 2005 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities was $43.7 million in 2006 as compared to $13.5 million in 2005. The increase of $30.2 million was primarily comprised of three venture recapitalizations during 2006. 2005 Compared to 2004 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities was $13.5 million in 2005 as compared to $1.5 million in 2004. The increase of $12.0 million was primarily comprised of $8.8 million related to the recapitalization of a venture and $2.9 million in relation to a sale of three communities from one venture to two other ventures. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 50.2%, 38.6% and (77.1%) in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2004 effective tax rate is highly sensitive due to the low level of pre-tax income. Realization of the deferred tax asset of $113.9 million and $56.5 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, is primarily dependent on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We had $82.0 million and $145.1 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. To date, we have financed our operations primarily with cash generated from operations and both short-term and long-term borrowings. We estimate that it will cost approximately $0.9 billion to complete the communities under construction at December 31, 2007. We expect most of these costs will be recovered when these communities are contributed to unconsolidated ventures before construction is completed, or in some circumstances, upon receipt of a certificate of occupancy. We have also entered into contracts to purchase or lease additional sites. We expect to develop the majority of the sites under purchase contracts within ventures. This business model limits the amount of capital required of us to complete the development of the communities. 79 We estimate that it will cost Sunrise or the applicable development ventures an additional $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion in debt and equity to develop the remaining communities in our 2008 development plan. Additional financing will be required to complete the development and construction of these sites and to refinance existing indebtedness to convert short-term acquisition loans to long-term financing. We are regularly in negotiations with lenders and venture partners to secure the financing required to fund development activities. Although we do not have firm commitments to cover our entire 2008 development plan, we expect that our cash flow from operations, together with borrowings under our credit facilities and financing expected to be available, will be sufficient to fund the development sites for these additional senior living communities. Long-Term Debt At December 31, 2006, we had $190.6 million of outstanding debt with a weighted average interest rate of 7.28%. Of the outstanding debt we had $55.9 million of fixed-rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 8.47% and $134.7 million of variable rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 6.78%. At December 31, 2006, we had $91.9 million of debt that was due in 2007. At December 31, 2007, we had $253.7 million of outstanding debt with a weighted average interest rate of 6.74%. Of the outstanding debt we had $9.1 million of fixed-rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 7.51% and $244.6 million of variable rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 6.72%. At December 31, 2007, we had $3.5 million of debt that is due in 2008. On December 2, 2005, we entered into a $250 million secured Bank Credit Facility (the “Bank Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks. The Bank Credit Facility provides for both cash borrowings and letters of credit. It has an initial term of four years and matures on December 2, 2009 unless extended for an additional one-year period upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Bank Credit Facility is secured by a pledge of all of the common and preferred stock issued by Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Investments, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc. and Sunrise Development, Inc., each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, to the Company, and all future cash and non-cash proceeds arising therefrom. Cash borrowings in US dollars accrue interest at LIBOR plus 1.70% to 2.25% plus a fee to participating lenders subject to certain European banking regulations or the Base Rate (the higher of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% or Prime) plus 0.00% to 0.75%. The Bank Credit Facility also permits cash borrowings and letters of credit in currencies other than US dollars. Interest on cash borrowings in non-US currencies accrue at the rate of the Banking Federation of the European Union for the Euro plus 1.70% to 2.25%. Letters of credit fees are equal to 1.50% to 2.00% of the maximum available to be drawn on the letters of credit. We pay commitment fees of 0.25% on the unused balance of the Bank Credit Facility. Borrowings are used for general corporate purposes including investments, acquisitions and the refinancing of existing debt. There were $83.3 million of letters of credit and $50.0 million of cash advances outstanding under this Bank Credit Facility at December 31, 2006. The letters of credit have been pledged primarily for the benefit of insurance companies, lenders and certain municipalities. The letters of credit issued under the Bank Credit Facility expire within one year. The Company had an outstanding balance of $100 million in borrowing and $71.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Bank Credit Facility as of December 31, 2007. The Company’s available borrowing capacity on the Bank Credit Facility at December 31, 2007 was $78.3 million. The Company’s available borrowing on the Bank Credit Facility at February 29, 2008 was $23.6 million as described below. Our Bank Credit Facility contains various financial covenants and other restrictions, including provisions that: (1) requires us to meet certain financial tests (for example, our Bank Credit Facility requires us not to exceed certain leverage ratios, to maintain certain fixed charge coverage ratios and to have a consolidated net worth of at least $450 million as adjusted each quarter and to meet other financial ratios); (2) require consent for changes in control; and (3) restricts our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of all or substantially all assets, or engage in mergers or other business combinations in which we are not the surviving entity, without lender consent. At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all of these debt covenants in the Bank Credit Facility. During 2006 and 2007, as a result of the delay in completing our Accounting Review, we entered into several amendments to our Bank Credit Facility extending the time period for furnishing quarterly and audited annual financial information to the lenders. In connection with these amendments, the interest rate applicable to the 80 outstanding balance under the Bank Credit Facility was also increased effective July 1, 2007 from LIBOR plus 225 basis points to LIBOR plus 250 basis points. On January 31, February 19, and March 13, 2008, Sunrise entered into further amendments to the Bank Credit Facility. These amendments, among other things: • waived delivery by Sunrise of all 2006 quarterly financial statements and financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007; • modified to April 15, 2008 the delivery date for the 2006 audited financial statements; • modified to April 30, 2008 the delivery date for preliminary 2007 unaudited annual financial statements; • modified to May 31, 2008 the delivery date for the preliminary unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2008; • modified to July 31, 2008 the delivery date for the 2007 audited annual financial statements; • modified to August 20, 2008 the delivery date for unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2008; and • modified to September 10, 2008 the delivery dated for the unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending June 30, 2008. Pursuant to the January 31, 2008 amendment, effective February 20, 2008, the aggregate amount outstanding under the Bank Credit Facility may not exceed $160 million until such time as the administrative agent acknowledges the receipt of the 2006 and 2007 annual financial statements, at which time the maximum amount permitted to be outstanding under the Bank Credit Facility will again be $250 million. We will continue to owe and pay fees on the unused amount available under the Bank Credit Facility, provided by the credit agreement, as if the maximum outstanding amount were $250 million. In addition, effective as of February 1, 2008 until the end of the interest period in which the administrative agent acknowledges in writing receipt of the 2006 and 2007 annual financial statements, the LIBOR loans margin will be 275 basis points and the Base Rate loan margin will be 125 basis points. On February 20, 2008, Sunrise Senior Living Insurance, Inc., our wholly owned insurance captive directly issued $43.3 million of letters of credit that had been issued under the Bank Credit Facility. As of February 29, 2008, we had borrowings of $108.0 million, letters of credit of $28.4 million and borrowing availability of approximately $23.6 million under the Bank Credit Facility. We believe this availability, including unrestricted cash balances, at February 29, 2008 and unlevered real estate assets, is sufficient to support our operations over the next twelve months. In the event that Sunrise is unable to furnish the lenders with all of the financial information required to be furnished under the amended Bank Credit Facility by the specified dates, the lenders under the Bank Credit Facility could, among other things, agree to a further extension of the delivery dates for the financial information, exercise their rights to accelerate the payment of all amounts then outstanding under the credit agreement and require Sunrise to replace or provide cash collateral for the outstanding letters of credit, or pursue further modifications with respect to the Bank Credit Facility. In connection with the March 13, 2008 amendment, the Company, Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Investments, Inc., Sunrise Development Inc. and Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc., each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (collectively, the “Loan Parties”), executed and delivered a security agreement to the administrative agent for the benefit of the lenders under the Bank Credit Facility. Pursuant to the security agreement, among other things, the Loan Parties granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a security interest in all accounts and contract rights, general intangibles and notes, notes receivable and similar instruments owned or acquired by the Loan Parties, as well as proceeds (cash and non-cash) and products thereof, as security for the payment of obligations under the Bank Credit Facility arrangements. Sunrise paid the lenders an aggregate fee of approximately $0.9 million and $1.1 million for entering into amendments during 2007 and 2008, respectively. 81 Guarantees In conjunction with our development ventures, we have provided project completion guarantees to venture lenders and the venture itself, operating deficit guarantees to the venture lenders whereby after depletion of established reserves we guarantee the payment of the lender’s monthly principal and interest during the term of the guarantee and guarantees to the venture to fund operating shortfalls. In conjunction with the sale of certain operating communities to third parties we have guaranteed a set level of net operating income or guaranteed a certain return to the buyer. As these guarantees prevent us from either being able to account for the transaction as a sale or to recognize profit from that sale transaction, the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”), Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, do not apply to these guarantees. In conjunction with the formation of new ventures that do not involve the sale of real estate, the acquisition of equity interests in existing ventures, and the acquisition of management contracts, we have provided operating deficit guarantees to venture lenders and/or the venture itself as described above, guarantees of debt repayment to venture lenders in the event that the venture does not perform under the debt agreements, and guarantees of a set level of net operating income to venture partners. The terms of the operating deficit guarantees and debt repayment guarantees match the term of the underlying venture debt and generally range from three to seven years. The terms of the guarantees of a set level of net operating income range from 18 months to seven years. Fundings under the operating deficit guarantees and debt repayment guarantees are generally recoverable either out of future cash flows of the venture or upon proceeds from the sale of communities. Fundings under the guarantees of a set level of net operating income are generally not recoverable. The maximum potential amount of future fundings for guarantees subject to the provisions of FIN 45, the carrying amount of the liability for expected future fundings at December 31, 2006, and fundings during 2006 are as follows (in thousands): FIN 45 FAS 5 Total Liability Liability Liability for Future for Future for Future Maximum Potential Fundings at Fundings at Fundings at Fundings Amount of Future December 31, December 31, December 31, during Guarantee type Fundings 2006 2006 2006 2006 Debt repayment $ 16,832 $ 1,210 $ — $ 1,210 $ — Operating deficit Uncapped 966 50,000 50,966 — Income support Uncapped 1,181 22,354 23,535 945 Other — — 94 94 — Total $ 3,357 $ 72,448 $ 75,805 $ 945 Generally, the financing obtained by Sunrise’s ventures is non-recourse to the venture members, with the exception of the debt repayment guarantees discussed above. However, Sunrise has entered into guarantees with the lenders with respect to acts which Sunrise believes are in its control, such as fraud, that create exceptions to the non-recourse nature of the debt. If such acts were to occur, the full amount of the venture debt could become recourse to Sunrise. The combined amount of venture debt underlying these guarantees is approximately $2.4 billion at December 31, 2006. Sunrise has not funded under these guarantees, and does not expect to fund under such guarantees in the future. To the extent that a third party fails to satisfy our obligation with respect to two continuing care retirement communities managed by Sunrise, which was $62.6 million at December 31, 2006, we would be required to pay this obligation, the majority of which is expected to be refinanced with proceeds from the issuance of entrance fees as new residents enter the communities. Below is a discussion of the significant guarantees that have impacted our income statement, financial position or cash flows or are reasonably expected to impact our profitability, financial position or cash flows in the future. 82 Senior Living Condominium Developments We began to develop senior living condominium projects in 2004. In 2006, we sold a majority interest in a combined condominium and assisted living venture to third parties. In conjunction with the development agreement for the condominium and assisting living projects, we agreed to be responsible for actual project costs in excess of budgeted project costs of more than $10 million (subject to certain limited exceptions). Project overruns to be paid by us are approximately $45 million. During 2006, we recorded a loss of approximately $17.2 million due to this commitment. During 2007, we expect to record an additional loss of approximately $7 million due to this increase in the budgeted project costs. Through February 29, 2008, we have paid approximately $11 million in cost overruns. The Fountains In the third quarter of 2005, we acquired a 20% interest in a venture and entered into management agreements for the 16 communities owned by the venture. In conjunction with this transaction, we guaranteed to fund shortfalls between actual net operating income and a specified level of net operating income up to $7 million per year through July 2010. We paid $12 million to the venture to enter into the management agreements, which was recorded as an intangible asset and is being amortized over the 30-year life of the management agreements. The $12 million was placed into a reserve account, and the first $12 million of shortfalls were to be funded from this reserve account. In late 2006 and 2007, we determined that shortfalls will exceed the amount held in the reserve account. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $22.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. We are continuing to receive management fees with respect to these communities. Germany Venture At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, we provided pre-opening and management services to five communities and eight communities, respectively, in Germany. In connection with the development of these communities, we provided operating deficit guarantees to cover cash shortfalls until the communities reach stabilization as defined in the contract. These communities have not performed as well as originally expected. Through February 29, 2008, we have funded $29 million under these guarantees and other loans. We expect to fund an additional $60 million through 2012, the date which we estimate that no further funding will be required. In 2006, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $50 million in accordance with SFAS 5 as we do not expect full repayment of the loans resulting from the funding. No assurance can be given that additional charges related to the operating deficit guarantees will not be required in subsequent periods. Other Guarantees Sunrise guarantees the $25.0 million senior component of public project finance bonds issued by the Camden County Investment Authority. The proceeds of the bond issuance were used to acquire and renovate a CCRC located in New Jersey for which we manage the community pursuant to a management agreement. This venture is consolidated as a VIE. See Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As indicated in Note 8, Sunrise provides operating deficit guarantees for non-consolidated VIEs. Contractual Obligations Our current contractual obligations include long-term debt, operating leases for our corporate and regional offices, operating leases for of our communities, and building and land lease commitments. In addition, we have commitments to fund ventures in which we are a partner. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our commitments. 83 Principal maturities of long-term debt, future minimum lease payments, and amounts due on land purchases and lease commitments at December 31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands): Payment due by period More Less Than Than 5 Contractual Obligations Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years Years Long-term debt $ 190,605 $ 141,923 $ 19,469 $ 2,290 $ 26,923 Equity investments in unconsolidated entities 64,645 17,517 47,128 — — Operating leases 508,570 58,893 117,736 113,345 218,596 Total $ 763,820 $ 218,333 $ 184,333 $ 115,635 $ 245,519 The Company also enters into land purchase and lease agreements for future development. Generally, these contracts can be terminated by Sunrise prior to closing and the only amounts to be paid are deposits. As of December 31, 2006, there were $5.7 million in deposits related to 50 land purchases. We anticipate future development to occur in ventures and expect to be reimbursed for the majority of the land purchase contracts and land lease costs by our capital partners when the development ventures are formed. Sunrise is obligated to provide annual audited financial statements and quarterly unaudited financial statements to various financial institutions that have made construction loans or provided permanent financing to entities directly or indirectly owned by Sunrise. In all such instances, the construction loans or permanent financing provided by financial institutions is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on the financed community. The failure to provide annual audited and quarterly unaudited financial statements of Sunrise in accordance with the obligations of the relevant credit facilities or ancillary documents could be an event of default under such documents, and could allow the financial institutions who have extended credit pursuant to such documents to seek remedies including possible repayment of the loan. All of these loans have been classified as current liabilities as of December 31, 2006. Cash Flows Our primary sources of cash from operating activities are the collection of management and professional services fees and from operating and pre-opened communities, collection of monthly fees and other billings from services provided to residents of our consolidated communities, and distributions of operating earnings from unconsolidated ventures. The primary uses of cash for our ongoing operations include the payment of community operating and ancillary expenses for our consolidated and managed communities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities such as accounts receivable, prepaids and other current assets, and accounts payable and accrued expenses will fluctuate based on the timing of payment to vendors. Reimbursement for these costs from our managed communities will vary as some costs are pre-funded, such as payroll, while others are reimbursed after they are incurred. Therefore, there will not always be a correlation between increases and decreases of accounts payable and receivables for our managed communities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $165.0 million and $219.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change in operating assets and liabilities created a use of cash of $58.1 million in 2006 and a source of cash of $106.2 million in 2005. Accordingly, net cash provided by operations before the change in operating assets and liabilities was $223.1 million in 2006 and $113.4 million in 2005. In 2006, cash flows provided by operations was positively influenced by a significant increase in self-insurance liabilities, which were offset by a significant increase in due from unconsolidated communities. The Company has placed emphasis on improved management of due from unconsolidated communities and expects to see reductions in this working capital item in future periods. In 2005, cash flows provided by operations were significantly influenced by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $306.4 million and $198.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006, we acquired Trinity, a 25% interest in Aston Gardens and the Raiser portfolio. We made significant contributions to ventures that were building unconsolidated senior living communities and made significant investments in consolidated communities while receiving distributions from unconsolidated communities of $72.6 million. In 2005, we acquired Greystone and The Fountains using cash of $46.5 million and $29.0 million, 84 respectively, acquired property for $134.3 million and contributed $64.1 million to unconsolidated senior living communities. These uses of cash in 2005 were partially offset by $56.2 million from the disposition of property and $9.3 million of distributions received from unconsolidated senior living communities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $78.3 million and $34.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Activities included additional borrowings of $154.1 million and $149.5 million, offset by debt repayments of $90.8 million and $137.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The additional borrowings under our Bank Credit Facility were used to fund our continued development of senior living communities and refinance existing debt. We repurchased approximately $8.7 million of our common stock and received proceeds of $29.1 million from the exercise of stock options in 2005. Stock Repurchase Programs In July 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares of our common stock up to an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million over the subsequent 12 months. In May 2003, our Board of Directors expanded the repurchase program to an aggregate purchase price of $150.0 million to repurchase outstanding shares of common stock and/or our outstanding 5.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2009. In March 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of outstanding shares of our common stock and/or our outstanding convertible subordinated notes up to an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million. At December 31, 2005, each of these preceding authorizations had expired to the extent not utilized. In November 2005, our Board of Directors approved a new repurchase plan that provided for the repurchase of up to $50.0 million of our common stock and/or the outstanding convertible subordinated notes. This plan extended through December 2007 and was not renewed. We repurchased outstanding shares of our common stock under these plans, as follows: Repurchase of Common Stock Shares Average Price 2002 1,162,800 $ 12.81 2003 7,918,800 13.42 2004 3,497,336 18.07 2005 347,980 25.03 2006 — — Total at December 31, 2006 12,926,916 $ 14.94 There have been no repurchases of our convertible subordinated notes under these plans. There have been no repurchases of common stock in 2006 or 2007. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates primarily through variable rate debt. The following table details by category the principal amount, the average interest rate and the estimated fair market value of our debt. The fair market value estimates for debt securities are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of the same type and remaining maturity. Estimated Maturity Date through December 31, Total Carrying Fair Market 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Value Value (Dollars in thousands) Debt: Fixed rate $ 34,356 $ 16,583 $ 1,151 $ 162 $ 174 $ 3,518 $ 55,944 $ 53,697 Average interest rate 8.47 % — Variable rate $ 107,567 $ 855 $ 880 $ 915 $ 1,039 $ 23,405 $ 134,661 $ 134,761 Average interest rate 6.78 % — 85 Notes receivable as of December 31, 2006 consist of the following four notes (dollars in thousands): Interest Rate 2006 Note V with international venture 4.37 % $ 1,030 LLC Note VI, revolving credit agreement 10.00 % 4,174 Promissory Note XIII 7.5 % 11,767 Promissory Note XIV Euribor + 4.25 % 4,834 $ 21,805 Note V, LLC Note VI and Promissory Note XIII are fixed rate instruments while Promissory Note XIV is a floating rate instrument. LLC Note VI and Promissory Note XIII were repaid entirely in 2007 and a portion of Note V was repaid in 2007. The carrying value of these notes represents their fair value as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we also are exposed to currency risk. At December 31, 2006, we had net U.S. dollar equivalent assets/(liabilities) of $(19.9) million, $23.9 million and $8.9 million in Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, respectively. We also had a net U.S. dollar equivalent liability of $50 million related to expected fundings under guarantees in Euros. Impact of Changes in Accounting Standards In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 is an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and it seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of measurement and recognition in accounting for income taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2007, and its provisions are to be applied to all tax positions upon initial adoption. Upon adoption of FIN 48, only tax positions that meet a “more likely than not” threshold at the effective date may be recognized or continue to be recognized. The cumulative effect of applying FIN 48, if any, is to be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. Sunrise is in the process of evaluating the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). This standard defines fair value, establishes a methodology for measuring fair value and expands the required disclosure for fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2009. Provisions of SFAS 157 are required to be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the first fiscal year in which SFAS 157 is applied. Sunrise is evaluating the impact that SFAS 157 will have on its financial statements. In November 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force of FASB (“EITF”) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 06-8, “Applicability of the Assessment of a Buyer’s Continuing Investment under FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate, for Sales of Condominiums” (“EITF 06-8”). EITF 06-8 requires condominium sales to meet the continuing investment criterion in SFAS No. 66 in order for profit to be recognized under the percentage of completion method. EITF 06-8 is effective for Sunrise at January 1, 2007. Sunrise is currently developing one condominium project for an unconsolidated venture. The venture has not recorded sales to date. The venture will apply EITF 06-8 for all future sales. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. The irrevocable election of the fair value option is made on an instrument by instrument basis, and applied to the entire instrument, and not just a portion of it. The changes in fair value of each item elected to be measured at fair value are recognized in earnings each reporting period. SFAS 159 does not affect any existing pronouncements that require assets and liabilities to be carried at fair value, nor does it eliminate any existing disclosure requirements. This standard is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2008. Sunrise is evaluating the impact that SFAS 159 will have on its financial statements. 86 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141R”), and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 require most identifiable assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination to be recorded at “full fair value” and require noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) to be reported as a component of equity. The standards are effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2009, and earlier adoption is prohibited. Impact of Inflation Management fees from communities operated by us for third parties and resident and ancillary fees from owned senior living communities are significant sources of our revenue. These revenues are affected by daily resident fee rates and community occupancy rates. The rates charged for the delivery of senior living services are highly dependent upon local market conditions and the competitive environment in which the communities operate. In addition, employee compensation expense is the principal cost element of community operations. Employee compensation, including salary and benefit increases and the hiring of additional staff to support our growth initiatives, have previously had a negative impact on operating margins and may again do so in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our resident agreements are for terms of one year, but are terminable by the resident at any time upon 30 days notice, and allow, at the time of renewal, for adjustments in the daily fees payable, and thus may enable us to seek increases in daily fees due to inflation or other factors. Any increase would be subject to market and competitive conditions and could result in a decrease in occupancy of our communities. We believe, however, that the short-term nature of our resident agreements generally serves to reduce the risk to us of the adverse effect of inflation. There can be no assurance that resident and ancillary fees will increase or that costs will not increase due to inflation or other causes. 2006 and 2005 (Restated) Quarterly Results of Operations and Balance Sheet Data (Unaudited) We are presenting the quarterly information for 2006 and 2005. Included are the unaudited consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2006 and unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2006. Also included are the unaudited restated consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 and unaudited restated consolidated statements of operations for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2005. Immediately following the unaudited financial statements is a brief description of material changes in the results of operations for: • The three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2005; • The three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2005; • The three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2005; • The six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2005; and • The nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 (Unaudited and in thousands, except per share amounts) Operating revenues: Management fees $ 27,314 $ 28,454 $ 35,738 $ 28,558 $ 120,064 Buyout fees 4,750 89,623 277 40,080 134,730 Professional fees from development, marketing and other 5,847 5,406 4,213 10,251 25,717 87 Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 (Unaudited and in thousands, except per share amounts) Resident and ancillary fees 103,363 106,204 114,352 131,990 455,909 Reimbursable contract services 235,397 234,360 224,126 218,096 911,979 Total operating revenues 376,671 464,047 378,706 428,975 1,648,399 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense 15,855 16,529 14,146 23,944 70,474 Community and ancillary 77,659 81,419 87,472 105,050 351,600 Community lease expense 12,538 12,752 12,525 13,151 50,966 General and administrative 22,752 31,554 33,254 46,513 134,073 Loss on financial guarantees — — — 89,676 89,676 Provision for doubtful accounts 998 526 698 12,410 14,632 Impairment of long-lived assets 160 600 — 14,970 15,730 Depreciation and amortization 11,604 11,610 11,775 13,659 48,648 Write-off of unamortized contract costs 939 14,549 — 9,871 25,359 Reimbursable contract services 235,397 234,360 224,126 218,096 911,979 Total operating expenses 377,902 403,899 383,996 547,340 1,713,137 (Loss) income from operations (1,231 ) 60,148 (5,290 ) (118,365 ) (64,738 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 2,254 1,733 2,084 3,506 9,577 Interest expense (1,777 ) (2,653 ) (482 ) (1,292 ) (6,204 ) Gain (loss) on investments — — 282 (5,892 ) (5,610 ) Other income (expense) 512 402 6,869 (1,077 ) 6,706 Total other non-operating income (expense) 989 (518 ) 8,753 (4,755 ) 4,469 Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 7,068 34,227 3,254 6,798 51,347 Sunrise’s share of (loss) earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities (2,414 ) 2,006 23,141 20,969 43,702 (Loss) gain from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method (476 ) (387 ) 937 (931 ) (857 ) Minority interests 716 2,128 1,890 2,182 6,916 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 4,652 97,604 32,685 (94,102 ) 40,839 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (2,332 ) (48,919 ) (16,381 ) 47,150 (20,482 ) Net income (loss) $ 2,320 $ 48,685 $ 16,304 $ (46,952 ) $ 20,357 Earnings (loss) per share data(1): Basic net income (loss) per common share $ 0.05 $ 0.98 $ 0.33 $ (0.94 ) $ 0.42 Diluted net income (loss) per common share 0.05 0.95 0.32 (0.94 ) 0.40 (1) The sum of per share amounts for the quarters may not equal the per share amount for the year due to a variance in shares used in the calculations or rounding. 88 The following are unaudited consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2006 (in thousands): March 31, June 30, September 30, 2006 2006 2006 (Unaudited) ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 69,553 $ 107,491 $ 58,750 Accounts receivable, net 56,488 69,599 71,919 Notes receivable, net 17,148 9,152 6,067 Due from unconsolidated communities 69,767 83,022 98,316 Deferred income taxes, net 20,525 20,525 20,525 Restricted cash 19,243 21,901 24,510 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 19,166 20,168 22,664 Total current assets 271,890 331,858 302,751 Property and equipment, net 509,687 512,188 577,648 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net 253,158 204,993 203,845 Property and equipment subject to financing, net 64,237 63,529 62,885 Notes receivable 4,074 13,761 13,972 Intangible assets, net 103,912 87,572 116,161 Goodwill 153,328 153,375 214,744 Investments in unconsolidated communities 65,099 68,676 99,271 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method 771 1,460 13,560 Investments 5,610 5,610 5,610 Restricted cash 117,458 160,309 157,892 Other assets, net 15,352 15,850 16,377 Total assets $ 1,564,576 $ 1,619,181 $ 1,784,716 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current Liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 52,335 $ 55,265 $ 59,295 Outstanding draws on bank credit facility — — 100,000 Accounts payable 6,260 925 7,832 Accrued expenses 130,405 200,889 192,464 Deferred revenue 7,166 8,237 4,365 Entrance fees 27,918 28,109 38,378 Self-insurance liabilities 28,279 31,125 37,954 Total current liabilities 252,363 324,550 440,288 Long-term debt, less current maturities 64,917 53,192 56,408 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract 325,350 252,063 254,043 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method 65,112 65,928 65,118 Investment accounted for under the profit-sharing method 6,423 7,020 9,099 Self-insurance liabilities 63,143 67,086 68,696 Guarantee liabilities 4,155 4,049 3,531 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues 40,168 44,136 46,729 Deferred income tax liabilities 78,004 78,004 78,004 Other long-term liabilities, net 38,436 38,883 58,134 Total liabilities 938,071 934,911 1,080,050 Minority interests 7,578 11,712 9,308 Stockholders’ Equity: Common stock 502 504 506 Additional paid-in capital 436,326 440,540 446,289 Retained earnings 180,954 229,653 245,945 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,145 1,861 2,618 Total stockholders’ equity 618,927 672,558 695,358 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,564,576 $ 1,619,181 $ 1,784,716 The following are the restated unaudited quarterly statements of income for the quarters within the year ended December 31, 2005, showing previously reported amounts and restated amounts and the restated unaudited 89 consolidated balance sheets for each quarter ended within 2005, showing the previously reported amounts and restated amounts. The consolidated statements of income includes amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation, separately disclosing buyout fees, professional fees from development, marketing and other and reimbursable contract services which were previously included in management fees, development and venture expense which was previously included in reimbursable contract services and separately disclosing provision for doubtful accounts which was included in general and administrative. The consolidated balance sheets also include amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current years’s presentation, separately disclosing accounts payable, accrued expenses and self-insurance liabilities. Consolidated Statements of Income For The Quarter Ended March 31, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (In thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Operating revenues: Management fees $ 25,790 $ (3,968 ) $ 21,822 Professional fees from development, marketing and other — 3,820 3,820 Resident and ancillary fees 84,951 4,572 89,523 Reimbursable contract services 279,057 (67,447 ) 211,610 Total operating revenues 389,798 (63,023 ) 326,775 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense — 5,440 5,440 Community and ancillary 65,283 3,737 69,020 Community lease expense 12,361 365 12,726 General and administrative 17,971 2,815 20,786 Provision for doubtful accounts — 458 458 Depreciation and amortization 5,157 4,803 9,960 Reimbursable contract services 279,057 (67,447 ) 211,610 Total operating expenses 379,829 (49,829 ) 330,000 Income (loss) from operations 9,969 (13,194 ) (3,225 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 1,710 (136 ) 1,574 Interest expense (907 ) (1,595 ) (2,502 ) Other expense — (418 ) (417 ) Total other non-operating income (expense) 803 (2,149 ) (1,345 ) Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 640 359 999 Sunrise’s share of losses and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 1,524 (3,238 ) (1,714 ) Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — (730 ) (730 ) Minority interests (217 ) — (217 ) Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 12,719 (18,952 ) (6,232 ) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (4,706 ) 7,111 2,405 Net income (loss) $ 8,013 $ (11,841 ) $ (3,827 ) Earnings (loss) per share data: Basic net income (loss) per common share $ 0.20 $ (0.29 ) $ (0.09 ) Diluted net income (loss) per common share 0.19 (0.28 ) (0.09 ) 90 Consolidated Statements of Income For the Quarter Ended June 30, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts) Operating revenues: Management fees $ 29,606 $ (4,695 ) $ 24,911 Professional fees from development, marketing and other — 8,701 8,701 Resident and ancillary fees 85,922 4,561 90,483 Reimbursable contract services 297,358 (79,190 ) 218,168 Total operating revenues 412,886 (70,623 ) 342,263 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense — 8,570 8,570 Community and ancillary 66,167 3,111 69,278 Community lease expense 12,044 1,216 13,260 General and administrative 20,097 2,810 22,907 Provision for doubtful accounts — 476 476 Impairment of long-lived assets — 2,472 2,472 Depreciation and amortization 5,974 4,633 10,607 Reimbursable contract services 297,358 (79,190 ) 218,168 Total operating expenses 401,640 (55,902 ) 345,738 Income (loss) from operations 11,246 (14,721 ) (3,475 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 1,484 (417 ) 1,067 Interest expense (950 ) (1,784 ) (2,734 ) Other expense — (1,282 ) (1,282 ) Total other non-operating income (expense) 534 (3,483 ) (2,949 ) Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 1,112 53,562 54,674 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 3,696 (969 ) 2,727 Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — (483 ) (483 ) Minority interests (179 ) 1,257 1,078 Income before provision for income taxes 16,409 35,163 51,572 Provision for income taxes (6,071 ) (13,836 ) (19,907 ) Net income $ 10,338 $ 21,327 $ 31,665 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 0.25 $ 0.52 $ 0.77 Diluted net income per common share 0.23 0.43 0.66 91 Consolidated Statements of Income For The Quarter Ended September 30, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts) Operating revenues: Management fees $ 30,595 $ (1,541 ) $ 29,054 Professional fees from development, marketing and other — 4,692 4,692 Resident and ancillary fees 90,882 11,043 101,925 Reimbursable contract services 341,736 (98,511 ) 243,225 Total operating revenues 463,213 (84,317 ) 378,896 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense — 13,629 13,629 Community and ancillary 69,642 8,775 78,417 Community lease expense 12,219 (578 ) 11,641 General and administrative 24,143 4,842 28,985 Provision for doubtful accounts — 377 377 Depreciation and amortization 8,976 2,487 11,463 Reimbursable contract services 341,736 (98,511 ) 243,225 Total operating expenses 456,716 (68,979 ) 387,737 Income (loss) from operations 6,497 (15,338 ) (8,841 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 1,592 (180 ) 1,412 Interest expense (1,065 ) (3,079 ) (4,144 ) Other income — 1,687 1,687 Total other non-operating income (expense) 527 (1,572 ) (1,045 ) Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 2,898 23,308 26,206 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 7,801 8,857 16,658 Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 386 386 Minority interests (185 ) 3,021 2,836 Income before provision for income taxes 17,538 18,662 36,200 Provision for income taxes (6,489 ) (7,484 ) (13,973 ) Net income $ 11,049 $ 11,178 $ 22,227 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 0.27 $ 0.26 $ 0.53 Diluted net income per common share 0.24 0.22 0.46 92 Consolidated Statements of Income For The Quarter Ended December 31, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share amounts) Operating revenues: Management fees $ 108,863 $ (79,827 ) $ 29,036 Buyout fees — 83,036 83,036 Professional fees from development, marketing and other 14,298 (6,591 ) 7,707 Resident and ancillary fees 93,396 9,340 102,736 Reimbursable contract services 338,191 (99,202 ) 238,989 Total operating revenues 554,748 (93,244 ) 461,504 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense 11,973 2,354 14,327 Community and ancillary 71,524 7,870 79,394 Community lease expense 11,777 366 12,143 General and administrative 28,505 5,418 33,923 Provision for doubtful accounts — 364 364 Depreciation and amortization 23,325 2,235 25,560 Reimbursable contract services 338,191 (99,202 ) 238,989 Total operating expenses 485,295 (80,595 ) 404,700 Income from operations 69,453 (12,649 ) 56,804 Other non-operating income: Interest income 2,191 (13 ) 2,178 Interest expense (596 ) (1,906 ) (2,502 ) Gain (loss) on investments — 2,036 2,036 Other income 3,939 (821 ) 3,118 Total other non-operating income 5,534 (704 ) 4,830 Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 4,580 (4,736 ) (156 ) Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 214 (4,413 ) (4,199 ) Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — (30 ) (30 ) Minority interests (234 ) 3,258 3,024 Income before provision for income taxes 79,547 (19,274 ) 60,273 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (29,205 ) 5,956 (23,249 ) Net income $ 50,342 $ (13,318 ) $ 37,024 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 1.19 $ (0.31 ) $ 0.88 Diluted net income per common share 1.01 $ (0.26 ) 0.75 93 Consolidated Balance Sheet March 31, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 158,715 $ (60,218 ) $ 98,497 Short-term investments 12,500 — 12,500 Accounts receivable, net 49,808 2,140 51,948 Notes receivable, net 2,862 — 2,862 Deferred income taxes, net 25,239 14,393 39,632 Due from unconsolidated communities 56,768 (7,607 ) 49,161 Restricted cash — 8,599 8,599 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 25,705 (15,721 ) 9,984 Total current assets 331,597 (58,414 ) 273,183 Property and equipment, net 384,241 (11,438 ) 372,803 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net — 475,560 475,560 Property and equipment subject to financing, net — 38,401 38,401 Notes receivable 40,420 (14,472 ) 25,948 Intangible assets, net 85,166 (7,871 ) 77,295 Goodwill 123,713 (1,888 ) 121,825 Investments in unconsolidated communities 96,689 (61,662 ) 35,027 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 2,582 2,582 Investments 7,882 (2,271 ) 5,611 Investment in Sunrise REIT debentures 20,549 — 20,549 Restricted cash — 74,374 74,374 Other assets, net 44,632 (26,850 ) 17,782 Total assets $ 1,134,889 $ 406,051 $ 1,540,940 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 16,498 $ — $ 16,498 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 202,600 (69,355 ) 133,245 Deferred revenue 9,291 (5,835 ) 3,456 Entrance fees — 25,809 25,809 Self-insurance liabilities — 20,283 20,283 Total current liabilities 228,389 (29,098 ) 199,291 Long-term debt, less current maturities 171,873 — 171,873 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract — 607,671 607,671 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method — 34,058 34,058 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 5,422 5,422 Guarantee liabilities — 2,210 2,210 Self-insurance liabilities — 49,052 49,052 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues — 8,227 8,227 Deferred income tax liabilities 151,139 (87,332 ) 63,807 Other long-term liabilities, net 46,520 (19,613 ) 26,907 Total liabilities 597,921 570,597 1,168,518 Minority interests 1,516 — 1,516 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 208 — 208 Additional paid-in capital 258,209 31,381 289,590 Retained earnings 279,809 (192,090 ) 87,719 Deferred compensation — restricted stock (8,387 ) — (8,387 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 5,613 (3,837 ) 1,776 Total stockholders’ equity 535,452 (164,546 ) 370,906 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,134,889 $ 406,051 $ 1,540,940 94 Consolidated Balance Sheet June 30, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 95,771 $ (42,231 ) $ 53,540 Accounts receivable, net 50,833 1,639 52,472 Notes receivable, net 13,938 — 13,938 Deferred income taxes, net 24,089 15,543 39,632 Due from unconsolidated communities 64,767 (7,244 ) 57,523 Restricted cash — 5,212 5,212 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 18,678 (15,941 ) 2,737 Total current assets 268,076 (43,022 ) 225,054 Property and equipment, net 395,249 (11,048 ) 384,201 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net — 315,232 315,232 Property and equipment subject to financing, net — 52,616 52,616 Notes receivable 23,033 (12,757 ) 10,276 Management contracts and leaseholds, net 92,156 (4,728 ) 87,428 Goodwill 159,801 (5,379 ) 154,422 Investments in unconsolidated communities 108,267 (67,693 ) 40,574 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 1,548 1,548 Investments 7,435 (1,824 ) 5,611 Investment in Sunrise REIT debentures 22,390 — 22,390 Restricted cash — 92,139 92,139 Other assets, net 51,418 (26,479 ) 24,939 Total assets $ 1,127,825 $ 288,605 $ 1,416,430 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 15,767 $ — $ 15,767 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 176,990 (49,667 ) 127,323 Deferred revenue 10,748 (4,953 ) 5,795 Entrance fees 26,111 — 26,111 Self-insurance liabilities — 18,815 18,815 Total current liabilities 229,616 (35,805 ) 193,811 Long-term debt, less current maturities 167,600 — 167,600 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract — 390,805 390,805 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method — 50,071 50,071 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 5,635 5,635 Guarantee liabilities — 2,136 2,136 Self-insurance liabilities — 54,036 54,036 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues — 18,847 18,847 Deferred income tax liabilities 153,269 (89,462 ) 63,807 Other long-term liabilities, net 25,295 27,008 52,303 Total liabilities 575,780 423,271 999,051 Minority interests 1,343 6,630 7,973 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 212 — 212 Additional paid-in capital 265,010 32,014 297,024 Retained earnings 290,146 (170,763 ) 119,383 Deferred compensation — restricted stock (9,490 ) — (9,490 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 4,824 (2,547 ) 2,277 Total stockholders’ equity 550,702 (141,296 ) 409,406 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,127,825 $ 288,605 $ 1,416,430 95 Consolidated Balance Sheet September 30, 2005 As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated (Unaudited) (In thousands) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 118,483 $ (43,621 ) $ 74,862 Accounts receivable, net 51,990 3,790 55,780 Notes receivable, net 15,291 — 15,291 Deferred income taxes, net 26,565 13,067 39,632 Due from unconsolidated communities 66,538 (9,889 ) 56,649 Restricted cash — 5,029 5,029 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 29,683 (16,389 ) 13,294 Total current assets 308,550 (48,013 ) 260,537 Property and equipment, net 434,944 31,024 465,968 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net — 250,961 250,961 Property and equipment subject to financing, net — 60,619 60,619 Notes receivable 27,984 (10,724 ) 17,260 Management contracts and leaseholds, net 100,547 (2,346 ) 98,201 Goodwill 164,279 (5,379 ) 158,900 Investments in unconsolidated communities 127,678 (59,106 ) 68,572 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 1,107 1,107 Investments 7,569 (1,959 ) 5,610 Investment in Sunrise REIT debentures 26,247 — 26,247 Restricted cash — 93,636 93,636 Other assets, net 49,823 (31,612 ) 18,211 Total assets $ 1,247,621 $ 278,208 $ 1,525,829 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 24,227 $ — $ 24,227 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 212,956 (39,443 ) 173,513 Deferred revenue 13,936 (7,008 ) 6,928 Entrance fees 25,750 (2,585 ) 23,165 Self-insurance liabilities — 20,350 20,350 Total current liabilities 276,869 (28,686 ) 248,183 Long-term debt, less current maturities 201,884 44,203 246,087 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract — 318,862 318,862 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method — 57,750 57,750 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 5,704 5,704 Guarantee liabilities — 3,710 3,710 Self-insurance liabilities — 58,122 58,122 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues — 17,528 17,528 Deferred income tax liabilities 160,237 (96,430 ) 63,807 Other long-term liabilities, net 34,975 24,853 59,828 Total liabilities 673,965 405,616 1,079,581 Minority interests 1,373 3,014 4,387 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 427 — 427 Additional paid-in capital 273,028 33,291 306,319 Retained earnings 301,195 (159,585 ) 141,610 Deferred compensation — restricted stock (11,450 ) — (11,450 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 9,083 (4,128 ) 4,955 Total stockholders’ equity 572,283 (130,422 ) 441,861 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,247,621 $ 278,208 $ 1,525,829 96 Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2005 Operating Revenues Management fees increased by $6.6 million, or 22.7%, to $35.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 from $29.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The increase was primarily due to the growth in the number of communities under management. The total number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and other third party owners increased by 7, or 1.9%, to 370 communities at September 30, 2006, from 363 communities at September 30, 2005. This growth resulted primarily from the addition of 26 new management contracts with venture communities (including 25 newly developed venture communities since September 30, 2005), which was partially offset by the loss of 23 management contracts resulting from buyouts by Five Star (12 in the fourth quarter 2005, one in the first quarter 2006 and 10 in the second quarter 2006). In addition, we received $2.5 million in transaction fees resulting from two venture recapitalizations in the third quarter 2006. Resident and ancillary fees increased by $12.4 million, or 12.2%, during the three months ended September 30, 2006 to $114.3 million from $101.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees from existing consolidated communities increased $6.7 million due to increases in average daily rates and $1.3 million due to increases in occupancy. In addition, $4.4 million of the increase is attributable to the acquisition of Trinity hospice and the acquisition of three communities in the third quarter 2006. Reimbursable contract services decreased by $19.1 million, or 7.9%, during the three months ended September 30, 2006 to $224.1 million from $243.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. Reimbursable contract services fluctuate based on the number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners and is offset by a corresponding amount in operating expenses — “Reimbursable contract services.” Operating Expenses Development and venture expense increased $0.5 million, or 3.7%, to $14.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 from $13.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. Community and ancillary expense increased $9.1 million, or 11.6%, to $87.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $78.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The community and ancillary expense changes are consistent with the increase in resident fees. General and administrative expense increased $4.3 million, or 14.8%, to $33.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $29.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to approximately $1 million in professional fees incurred related to the Company’s accounting restatement and approximately $2 million in additional expenses to support new international communities in Canada, the UK and Germany. The remaining increase of approximately $1.3 million is the result of various immaterial items. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $0.3 million, or 2.6%, to $11.8 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $11.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to additional fixed assets and software placed in service during 2006. Provision for doubtful accounts increased $0.3 million, or 75.0%, to $0.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $0.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to increases in the provision for resident receivables. 97 Other Non — Operating Income Interest income increased by approximately $0.7 million, or 50.0%, to $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2006 from $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005. The increase is due primarily to higher cash balances in 2006 resulting from the cash received from the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in October 2005 and May 2006. Interest expense decreased by approximately $3.7 million, or 88.1%, to $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2006 from $4.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005. The decrease is due primarily to the conversion of convertible debt into common stock in February 2006. Other income increased approximately $5.2 million, or 305.9%, to income of $6.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2006 from $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005. The increase was the result of a $3.0 million cash payment received from a third party owner of four of our managed communities to settle outstanding receivables due to the Company. Of the $3.0 million received, $1.9 million was recorded as other income. In addition, we received a $4.9 million settlement payment relating to our 2003 acquisition of MSLS that was recorded as other non-operating income. This income was offset by a decrease of approximately $1.4 million in foreign currency gains in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The remaining change of approximately $0.2 million is the result of various immaterial items. Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests of $3.3 million were recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to gains of $26.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The $3.3 million gain in 2006 was due to gains related to four transactions which occurred in prior years for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement. Sunrises’s Share of Earnings and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Communities Sunrises’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities increased $6.5 million, or 39.2%, to $23.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $16.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2005, primarily due to two venture recapitalizations in the third quarter 2006. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $16.4 million and $14.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 50% and 39% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in the provision for tax contingencies and in the valuation allowance. Three Months Ended June 30, 2006 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2005 Operating Revenues Management fees increased by $3.6 million, or 14.5%, to $28.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 from $24.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. This increase was primarily due to the growth in the number of communities under management. The total number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and other third party owners increased by 19, or 5.6%, to 361 communities at June 30, 2006, from 342 communities at June 30, 2005. This growth resulted primarily from the addition of 39 new management contracts with venture communities (including 16 management contracts acquired with The Fountains acquisition in the third quarter 2005 and 25 newly developed venture communities since June 30, 2005) which was partially offset by the loss of 23 management contracts resulting from buyouts by Five Star (12 in the fourth quarter 2005, one in the first quarter 2006 and 10 in the second quarter 2006). 98 Buyout fees were $89.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 from the buyout of ten management contracts by a third party owner. The Company received no buyout fees during the three months ended June 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees increased by $15.7 million, or 17.3%, during the three months ended June 30, 2006 to $106.2 million from $90.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees from existing consolidated communities increased $8.1 million due to increases in average daily rates and $1.9 million due to increases in occupancy. In addition, $5.7 million of the increase is attributable to the addition of six consolidated communities since June 30, 2005 and four communities accounted for under the financing method. Reimbursable contract services increased by $16.2 million, or 7.4%, during the three months ended June 30, 2006 to $234.4 million from $218.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. Reimbursable contract services fluctuate based on the number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners and is offset by a corresponding amount in operating expenses — “Reimbursable contract services.” Operating Expenses Development and venture expense increased $7.9 million, or 91.9%, to $16.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 from $8.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. This increase is primarily due to activity relating to properties and development projects acquired as a part of the Greystone transaction in May 2005. Of the $7.9 million increase, approximately $4.2 million relates to Greystone, $0.5 million relates to additional pre-opening marketing costs that were expensed in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 and $1.6 million relates to increased international development in Canada, the UK and Germany resulting in additional support costs. The remaining increase of approximately $1.6 million is the result of various immaterial items. Community and ancillary expense increased $12.1 million, or 17.5%, to $81.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $69.3 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. The community and ancillary expense changes are consistent with the increase in resident fees. General and administrative expense increased $8.7 million, or 38.0%, to $31.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $22.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to approximately $6.3 million in salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage and approximately $2 million in additional expenses to support new international communities in Canada, the UK and Germany. The remaining increase of approximately $0.3 million is the result of various immaterial items. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $15.6 million, or 147.2%, to $26.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $10.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to the buyout of ten Five Star management contracts in May 2006 and the write-off of $14.5 million in management contract intangible assets associated with those contracts. The remaining increase of approximately $1.1 million was primarily due to additional fixed assets and software placed in service during 2006. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.6 million relating to two small senior living communities in the three months ended June 30, 2006. The communities were sold in September 2006. We recorded an impairment charge of $2.5 million related to the closure of a community in the three months ended June 30, 2005. Other Non — Operating Expense Interest income increased by approximately $0.6 million, or 54.5%, to $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2006 from $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2005. The increase is due primarily to higher cash balances in 2006 resulting from the cash received from the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in October 2005 and May 2006. Interest expense decreased by approximately $0.1 million, or 3.7%, to $2.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2006 from $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2005. 99 Other income increased approximately $1.7 million, or 130.8%, to income of $0.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2006 from expense of $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2005. The increase was the result of an increase of approximately $1.4 million in foreign currency translation gains in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The remaining increase of approximately $0.3 million is the result of various immaterial items. Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $34.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $54.7 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005. Of the $34.2 million in 2006 gains, we recognized $28.2 million in gains relating to a transaction which occurred in a prior year for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement and $5.5 million in gains related to the sale of two parcels of undeveloped land. Sunrises’s Share of Earnings and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Communities Sunrises’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities decreased $0.7 million, or 25.9%, to $2.0 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $2.7 million during the three months ended June 30, 2005, primarily due to start up losses in two of our international ventures. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $48.9 million and $19.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 50% and 39% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increases in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in the provision for tax contingencies and in the valuation allowance. Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 Operating Revenues Management fees increased by $5.5 million, or 25.2%, to $27.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 from $21.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. This increase was primarily due to the growth in the number of communities under management. The total number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and other third party owners increased by 37, or 11.4%, to 361 communities at March 31, 2006, from 324 communities at March 31, 2005. This growth resulted primarily from the addition of 32 new management contracts with venture communities (including 16 management contracts acquired with The Fountains acquisition in the third quarter 2005 and 22 newly developed venture communities since March 31, 2005) and 14 management contracts acquired in the Greystone acquisition in the second quarter 2005 which was partially offset by the loss of 13 management contracts resulting from buyouts from Five Star (12 in the fourth quarter 2005 and one in the first quarter 2006). Buyout fees were $4.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 from the buyout of one management contract by a third party owner. The Company received no buyout fees during the three months ended March 31, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees increased by $13.8 million, or 15.4%, during the three months ended March 31, 2006 to $103.3 million from $89.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees from existing consolidated communities increased $3.5 million due to increases in average daily rates and $1.8 million due to increases in occupancy. In addition, $8.5 million of the increase is attributable to the addition of seven consolidated communities since March 31, 2005 and four communities accounted for under the financing method. 100 Reimbursable contract services increased by $23.8 million, or 11.2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2006 to $235.4 million from $211.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. Reimbursable contract services fluctuate based on the number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners and is offset by a corresponding amount in operating expenses — “Reimbursable contract services.” Operating Expenses Development and venture expense increased $10.4 million, or 192.6%, to $15.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 from $5.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. This increase is primarily due to activity relating to properties and development projects acquired as a part of the Greystone transaction in May 2005. Of the $10.4 million increase, approximately $6.8 million relates to Greystone and $3.0 million relates to additional pre-opening marketing costs that were expensed in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The remaining increase of approximately $0.6 million is the result of various immaterial items. Community and ancillary expense increased $8.6 million, 12.5%, to $77.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $69.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. The community and ancillary expense changes are consistent with the increase in resident fees. General and administrative expense increased $2.0 million, or 9.6%, to $22.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $20.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. The change was primarily due to salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.6 million, or 26.3%, to $12.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $9.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. The change was primarily due to the buyout of a Five Star management contract in February 2006 and the write-off of a $0.9 million management contract intangible asset associated with that contract and approximately $1.1 million was due to additional fixed assets and software placed in service in 2006. Provision for doubtful accounts increased $0.5 million, or 100.0%, to $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $0.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. The change was primarily due to increases in the provision for resident receivables. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.2 million relating to two small senior living communities. The communities were sold in September 2006. Other Non-Operating Income (Expense) Interest income increased by approximately $0.7 million, or 43.8%, to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 from $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The increase is due primarily to higher cash balances in 2006 resulting from the cash received from the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in October 2005. Interest expense decreased by approximately $0.7 million, or 28.0%, to $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 from $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The decrease is due primarily to the conversion of convertible debt into common stock in February 2006. Other income increased approximately $0.9 million, or 225.0%, to income of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 from expense of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The increase was the result of an increase of approximately $0.4 million in foreign currency transaction gains in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 and $0.4 million in income recognized from the forfeit of a non-refundable land deposit received from a prospective buyer of an undeveloped parcel of land. 101 Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $7.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005. Of the $7.1 million in 2006 gains, we recognized $6.4 million in gain related to the sale of our venture interest in one venture and $0.7 million in gain related to a transaction which occurred in a prior year for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement. Sunrise’s Share of Losses and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Communities Sunrise’s share of losses and return on investment in unconsolidated communities increased to a loss of $2.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to a loss of $1.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005, primarily due to start up losses in two of our international ventures. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes The provision for (benefit from) income taxes was $2.3 million and $(2.4) million during the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 50% and 39% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increases in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in the provision for tax contingencies and in the valuation allowance. Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2005 Operating Revenues Management fees increased by $9.1 million, or 19.5%, to $55.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 from $46.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. This increase was primarily due to the growth in the number of communities under management. The total number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and other third party owners increased by 19, or 5.6%, to 361 communities at June 30, 2006, from 342 communities at June 30, 2005. This growth resulted primarily from the addition of 39 new management contracts with venture communities (including 16 management contracts acquired with The Fountains acquisition in the third quarter 2005 and 25 newly developed venture communities since June 30, 2005) which was partially offset by the loss of 23 management contracts resulting from buyouts from Five Star (12 in the fourth quarter 2005, one in the first quarter 2006 and 10 in the second quarter 2006). Buyout fees were $94.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 from the buyout of eleven management contracts by a third party owner. The Company received no buyout fees during the six months ended June 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees increased by $29.6 million, or 16.4%, during the six months ended June 30, 2006 to $209.6 million from $180.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees from existing consolidated communities increased approximately $11.6 million due to increases in average daily rates and $3.7 million due to increases in occupancy. In addition, $10.7 million of the increase is attributable to the addition of six consolidated communities and four communities accounted for under the financing method since June 30, 2005 and $3.7 million is attributable to the inclusion of one consolidated community for six months in 2006 versus three months in 2005. Reimbursable contract services increased by $40.0 million, or 9.3%, during the six months ended June 30, 2006 to $469.8 million from $429.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. Reimbursable contract services fluctuate based on the number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners and is offset by a corresponding amount in operating expenses — “Reimbursable contract services.” 102 Operating Expenses Development and venture expense increased $18.4 million, or 131.4%, to $32.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 from $14.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. This increase is primarily due to activity relating to properties and development projects acquired as a part of the Greystone transaction in May 2005. Of the $18.4 million increase, approximately $12.0 million relates to Greystone, $3.5 million relates to additional pre-opening marketing costs that were expensed in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, $0.7 million relates to increased international development in Canada, the UK and Germany resulting in additional support costs. In addition, there was a $0.7 million increase in professional fees and legal expenses. The remaining increase of approximately $1.5 million is the result of various immaterial items. Community and ancillary expense increased $20.8 million, or 15.0%, to $159.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $138.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. The community and ancillary expense changes are a result of increases in occupancy. General and administrative expense increased $10.6 million, or 24.3%, to $54.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $43.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to approximately $7.4 million in salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage and approximately $2.1 million in additional expenses to support new international communities in Canada, the UK and Germany. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in May 2006, the Company was not reimbursed by Five Star for approximately $1.5 million in insurance program costs. Provision for doubtful accounts increased $0.6 million, or 66.7%, to $1.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $0.9 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to increases in the provision for resident receivables. The Company recorded impairment charges of $0.8 million relating to two small senior living communities during the six months ended June 30, 2006. The communities were sold in September 2006. We recorded an impairment charge of $2.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2005 related to one community. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.6 million, or 12.6%, to $23.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $20.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. The increase was primarily due to additional fixed assets and software placed in service during 2006. Write-off of unamortized costs was $15.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The write-off was primarily due to the buyout of eleven Five Star management contracts in February and May 2006 and the write-off of $15.5 million in management contract intangible assets associated with those contracts. Other Non-Operating Income Interest income increased by approximately $1.3 million, or 53.8%, to $4.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 from $2.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2005. The increase is due primarily to higher cash balances in 2006 resulting from the cash received from the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in October 2005 and May 2006. Interest expense decreased by approximately $0.8 million, or (15.4%), to $4.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 from $5.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2005. The decrease is due primarily to the conversion of convertible debt into common stock February 2006. Other income (expense) increased approximately $2.6 million to income of $0.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 from expense of $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2005. The increase was the result of an increase of approximately $1.8 million in foreign currency transaction gains in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 and $0.4 million in income recognized from a non-refundable land deposit received from a prospective buyer of an undeveloped parcel of land in the first quarter 2006. The remaining increase of approximately $0.4 million is the result of various immaterial items. 103 Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $41.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $55.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005. Of the $41.3 million in 2006 gains, we recognized $6.4 million in gain related to the sale of our venture interest in one venture, $29.4 million in gains relating to transactions which occurred in prior years for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement and $5.5 million in gains related to the sale of two parcels of undeveloped land. Sunrise’s Share of Earnings (Losses) and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Properties Sunrise’s share of earnings (losses) and return on investment in unconsolidated properties decreased $1.4 million to $0.4 million of loss during the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $1.0 million of income during the six months ended June 30, 2005, primarily due to start up losses in two of our international ventures in 2006. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $50.3 million and $18.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 50% and 39% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in the provision for tax contingencies and in the valuation allowance. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005 Operating Revenues Management fees increased by $15.7 million, or 20.7%, to $91.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $75.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was primarily due to the growth in the number of communities under management. The total number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and other third party owners increased by 7, or 1.9%, to 370 communities at September 30, 2006, from 363 communities at September 30, 2005. This growth resulted primarily from the addition of 26 new management contracts with venture communities (including 25 newly developed venture communities since September 30, 2005) which was partially offset by the loss of 23 management contracts resulting from buyouts by Five Star (12 in the fourth quarter 2005, one in the first quarter 2006 and 10 in the second quarter 2006). In addition, we received $2.5 million in transaction fees resulting from two venture recapitalizations in the third quarter of 2006. Buyout fees were $94.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from the buyout of eleven management contracts by Five Star and the buyout of four other management contracts by other third party owners. The Company received no buyout fees during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees increased by $42.0 million, or 14.9%, to $323.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $281.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Resident and ancillary fees from existing consolidated communities increased $18.4 million due to increases in average daily rates and $5.0 million due to increases in occupancy. In addition, $4.4 million of the increase is attributable to the acquisition of Trinity and three communities in the third quarter 2006 and $14.4 is attributable to the inclusion of seven consolidated communities and four communities accounted for under the financing method for nine months in 2006 versus periods less than nine months in 2005. Reimbursable contract services increased by $20.9 million, or 3.1%, during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 to $693.9 million from $673.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Reimbursable contract services fluctuate based on the number of communities managed for unconsolidated ventures and third-party owners and is offset by a corresponding amount in operating expenses — “Reimbursable contract services.” 104 Operating Expenses Development and venture expense increased $18.9 million, or 68.5%, to $46.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $27.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase is primarily due to activity relating to properties and development projects acquired as a part of the Greystone transaction in May 2005. Of the $18.9 million increase, approximately $13.5 million relates to Greystone, $4.0 million relates to additional pre-opening marketing costs that were expensed in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 and a $0.7 million increase in professional fees and legal expenses. The remaining increase of approximately $0.7 million is the result of various immaterial items. Community and ancillary expense increased $29.8 million, or 13.8%, to $246.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $216.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The community and ancillary expense changes are consistent with the increase in resident fees. General and administrative expense increased $14.9 million, or 20.5%, to $87.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $72.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The increase was primarily due to approximately $7.6 million in salaries, employee benefits, travel and related costs associated with additional employees to support the increased number of communities we manage, $2.2 million in additional expenses to support new international communities in Canada, the UK and Germany and $1.1 million in professional fees incurred related to the Company’s accounting restatement. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in May 2006, the Company was not reimbursed by Five Star for approximately $1.5 million in insurance program costs. The remaining increase of approximately $2.5 million is the result of various immaterial items. Provision for doubtful accounts increased $0.9 million, or 69.2%, to $2.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $1.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The change was primarily due to increases in the provision for resident receivables. The Company recorded impairment charges of $0.8 million relating to two small senior living communities in the first quarter and second quarter 2006, respectively. The communities were sold in September 2006. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $3 million, or 9.4%, to $35.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $32.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The increase was primarily due to additional fixed assets and software placed in service during 2006. Write-off of unamortized contract costs was $15.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The write-off was primarily due to the buyout of eleven Five Star management contracts in February and May 2006 and the write-off of $15.5 million in management contract intangible assets associated with those contracts. Other Non-Operating Income (Expense) Interest income increased by approximately $2.0 million, or 48.8%, to $6.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The increase is due primarily to higher cash balances in 2006 resulting from the cash received from the buyout of the Five Star management contracts in October 2005 and May 2006. Interest expense decreased by approximately $4.5 million, or 47.9%, to $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $9.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The decrease is due primarily to the conversion of convertible debt into common stock in February 2006. Other income was $7.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The increase was primarily due to a $3.0 million cash payment received from a third party owner of four of our managed communities to settle outstanding receivables due to the Company in July 2006. Of the $3.0 million received, $1.9 million was recorded as other non-operating income. In addition, we received a $4.9 million settlement payment relating to the 2003 acquisition of MSLS in the third quarter 2006 and a $0.4 million forfeit of a non-refundable land deposit received 105 from a prospective buyer of an undeveloped parcel of land in the first quarter 2006 that were recorded as other non-operating income. The remaining increase of approximately $0.6 million is the result of various immaterial items. Gain on the Sale and Development of Real Estate and Equity Interests Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests was $44.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $81.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005, or a decrease of $37.4 million. The gains in 2006 consisted of $6.4 million in gain related to the sale of our venture interest in one venture, $31.9 million in gains relating to transactions which occurred in prior years for which gain had been deferred due to various forms of continuing involvement and $5.5 million in gains related to the sale of two parcels of undeveloped land. The remaining gain recognized of approximately $0.7 million is the result of various immaterial items. Sunrise’s Share of Earnings and Return on Investment in Unconsolidated Communities Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities increased $5.0 million, or 28.2%, to $22.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $17.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2005, primarily due to two venture recapitalizations in the third quarter of 2006. This increase was partially offset by start up losses in two of our international ventures. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $67.6 million and $31.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 50% and 39% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk appears in the “Market Risk” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 106 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following information is included on the pages indicated: Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 108 Consolidated Balance Sheets 109 Consolidated Statements of Income 110 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 111 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 112 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 113 107 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Stockholders and Board of Directors Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has restated its financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. As discussed in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Sunrise Senior Living, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 22, 2008 expressed an adverse opinion thereon. Ernst & Young LLP McLean, Virginia March 22, 2008 108 SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, (In thousands, except per share and share amounts) 2006 2005 (Restated) ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 81,990 $ 145,078 Accounts receivable, net 75,055 58,546 Notes receivable, net 4,174 16,461 Due from unconsolidated communities 105,688 54,256 Deferred income taxes, net 29,998 20,525 Restricted cash 34,293 11,609 Prepaid insurance 5,485 4,338 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 19,401 16,075 Total current assets 356,084 326,888 Property and equipment, net 609,385 494,069 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net 193,158 255,231 Property and equipment subject to financing, net 62,520 64,174 Notes receivable 17,631 3,956 Intangible assets, net 103,771 96,674 Goodwill 218,015 153,328 Investments in unconsolidated communities 104,272 63,340 Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 558 Investments — 5,610 Restricted cash 143,760 106,176 Other assets, net 8,832 17,781 Total assets $ 1,817,428 $ 1,587,785 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current Liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 91,923 $ 52,372 Outstanding draws on bank credit facility 50,000 — Accounts payable 14,113 13,649 Accrued expenses 176,893 158,619 Deferred revenue 8,703 7,720 Entrance fees 38,098 26,961 Self-insurance liabilities 41,379 21,363 Total current liabilities 421,109 280,684 Long-term debt, less current maturities 48,682 196,024 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract 240,367 324,782 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method 66,283 64,208 Investment accounted for under the profit-sharing method 29,148 5,664 Guarantee liabilities 75,805 4,444 Self-insurance liabilities 72,993 62,823 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues 51,958 28,226 Deferred income tax liabilities 89,267 78,004 Other long-term liabilities, net 58,000 37,830 Total liabilities 1,153,612 1,082,689 Minority interests 16,515 12,712 Stockholders’ Equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 10,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding — — Common stock, $0.01 par value, 120,000,000 share authorized, 50,572,092 and 43,452,790 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively 506 435 Additional paid-in capital 445,275 326,207 Retained earnings 198,991 178,634 Deferred compensation — restricted stock — (12,323 ) Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income 2,529 (569 ) Total stockholders’ equity 647,301 492,384 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,817,428 $ 1,587,785 See accompanying notes. 109 SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Years Ended December 31, (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 (Restated) (Restated) Operating revenue: Management fees $ 120,064 $ 104,823 $ 87,505 Buyout fees 134,730 83,036 — Professional fees from development, marketing and other 25,717 24,920 10,949 Resident and ancillary fees 455,909 384,667 366,624 Reimbursable contract services 911,979 911,992 802,562 Total operating revenues 1,648,399 1,509,438 1,267,640 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense 70,474 41,966 23,345 Community and ancillary 351,600 296,109 275,957 Community lease expense 50,966 49,770 46,978 General and administrative 134,073 106,601 86,080 Loss on financial guarantees and other contracts 89,676 — — Provision for doubtful accounts 14,632 1,675 2,325 Impairment of long-lived assets 15,730 2,472 — Depreciation and amortization 48,648 42,981 40,027 Write-off of unamortized contract costs 25,359 14,609 — Reimbursable contract services 911,979 911,992 802,562 Total operating expenses 1,713,137 1,468,175 1,277,274 (Loss) income from operations (64,738 ) 41,263 (9,634 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 9,577 6,231 5,590 Interest expense (6,204 ) (11,882 ) (12,315 ) (Loss) gain on investments (5,610 ) 2,036 — Other income 6,706 3,105 4,111 Total other non-operating income (expense) 4,469 (510 ) (2,614 ) Gain on the sale and development of real estate and equity interests 51,347 81,723 14,025 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 43,702 13,472 1,508 Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method (857 ) (857 ) (1,578 ) Minority interests 6,916 6,721 (1,078 ) Income before provision for income taxes 40,839 141,812 629 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (20,482 ) (54,723 ) 485 Net income $ 20,357 $ 87,089 $ 1,114 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 0.42 $ 2.10 $ 0.03 Diluted net income per common share $ 0.40 1.82 $ 0.03 See accompanying notes. 110 SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Accumulated Shares of Common Additional Other Common Stock Paid-in Retained Deferred Comprehensive Stock Amount Capital Earnings Compensation Income (Loss) Total (In thousands) Balance at January 1, 2004 (As previously stated) 41,961 $ 420 $ 273,168 $ 221,109 $ (6,564 ) $ 2,143 $ 490,276 Effect of restatement — — 30,936 (130,678 ) — (1,340 ) (101,082 ) Balance at January 1, 2004 (Restated) 41,961 420 304,104 90,431 (6,564 ) 803 389,194 Net income (Restated) — — — 1,114 — — 1,114 Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — — — 1,603 1,603 Sunrise’s share of investee’s other comprehensive income — —— — — — 759 759 Total comprehensive income (Restated) — — — — — — 3,476 Issuance of common stock to employees 2,679 26 30,387 — — — 30,413 Repurchase of common stock (3,498 ) (34 ) (63,159 ) — — — (63,193 ) Conversion of convertible debt — — 8 — — — 8 Issuance of restricted stock 22 — 400 — (400 ) — — Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 2,119 — 2,119 Forfeiture of restricted stock (26 ) — (310 ) — 310 — — Tax effect from the exercise of non-qualified stock options — — 7,686 — — — 7,686 Balance at December 31, 2004 (Restated) 41,138 412 279,116 91,545 (4,535 ) 3,165 369,703 Net income (Restated) — — — 87,089 — — 87,089 Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — — — (3,231 ) (3,231 ) Sunrise’s share of investee’s other comprehensive income — — — — — (503 ) (503 ) Total comprehensive income (Restated) — — — — — — 83,355 Issuance of common stock to employees 2,248 22 31,307 — — — 31,329 Repurchase of common stock (348 ) (3 ) (8,709 ) — — — (8,712 ) Conversion of convertible debt 3 — 55 — — — 55 Issuance of restricted stock 412 4 10,995 — (10,997 ) — 2 Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 3,209 — 3,209 Tax effect from the exercise of non-qualified stock options — 13,443 — — — 13,443 Balance at December 31, 2005 (Restated) 43,453 435 326,207 178,634 (12,323 ) (569 ) 492,384 Net Income — — — 20,357 — — 20,357 Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — — — 2,205 2,205 Sunrise’s share of investee’s other comprehensive income — — — — — 893 893 Total comprehensive income — — — — — — 23,455 Issuance of common stock to employees 374 3 5,161 — — — 5,164 Conversion of convertible debt 6,700 67 117,917 — — — 117,984 Issuance of restricted stock 45 1 532 — — — 533 Forfeiture of restricted stock — — (5 ) — — — (5 ) Adoption of SFAS 123R — — (12,323 ) — 12,323 — — Stock-based compensation expense — — 5,846 — — — 5,846 Tax effect from the exercise of non-qualified stock options — — 1,940 — — — 1,940 Balance at December 31, 2006 50,572 $ 506 $ 445,275 $ 198,991 $ — $ 2,529 $ 647,301 See accompanying notes. 111 SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2006 (Restated) (Restated) (In thousands) Operating activities Net income $ 20,357 $ 87,089 $ 1,114 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests (51,347 ) (81,723 ) (14,025 ) (Gain) loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method 857 857 1,578 (Gain) loss from application of financing method (1,155 ) (528 ) — Gain on sale of investment in Sunrise REIT debentures — (2,036 ) — Loss (gain) on sale of investments 5,610 — — Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities (12,285 ) (13,423 ) (5,005 ) Write-off of unamortized contract costs 25,359 15,395 — Impairment of long-lived assets 15,730 2,472 — Loss on financial guarantees 89,676 — — Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated communities 66,669 26,895 6,513 Minority interest in income/loss of controlled entities (6,916 ) (6,721 ) 1,078 Provision for bad debts 14,632 1,675 2,325 Provision for deferred income taxes (584 ) 31,925 (9,795 ) Depreciation and amortization 48,648 42,195 40,027 Amortization of financing costs 1,404 1,483 2,018 Write-off of capitalized project costs — 2,336 5,036 Amortization of deferred compensation 6,463 5,465 2,882 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: (Increase) decrease in: Accounts receivable (23,242 ) 3,850 (13,796 ) Due from unconsolidated communities (83,451 ) (6,279 ) (16,146 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets (4,041 ) (3,425 ) (3,212 ) Other assets 6,694 (6,189 ) (2,517 ) Increase (decrease) in: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 13,862 62,227 41,849 Entrance fees 913 1,095 998 Self-insurance liabilities 30,186 21,885 24,038 Deferred revenue and gains on the sale of real estate 983 33,034 21,090 Net cash provided by operating activities 165,022 219,554 86,050 Investing activities Capital expenditures (187,326 ) (134,291 ) (111,316 ) Acquisitions of business assets (103,491 ) (75,532 ) — Dispositions of property 83,290 56,246 146,139 Cash obtained in consolidation of Greystone — 10,922 — Change in restricted cash (60,268 ) (43,831 ) 11,462 Purchases of short-term investments (172,575 ) (62,825 ) (26,350 ) Proceeds from short-term investments 172,575 77,725 11,450 Increase in investments and notes receivable (343,286 ) (158,697 ) (159,825 ) Proceeds from investments and notes receivable 376,061 187,042 141,082 Investments in unconsolidated communities (77,371 ) (64,080 ) (27,987 ) Distributions of capital from unconsolidated communities 5,954 9,273 8,742 Net cash used in investing activities (306,437 ) (198,048 ) (6,276 ) Financing activities Net proceeds from exercised options 4 29,065 29,726 Additional borrowings of long-term debt 154,140 149,539 112,781 Repayment of long-term debt (90,781 ) (137,296 ) (119,451 ) Contribution from minority interests 15,669 5,000 — Distributions to minority interest (630 ) (1,021 ) (724 ) Financing costs paid (75 ) (2,622 ) (392 ) Repurchases of common stock — (8,712 ) (63,193 ) Net cash provided by (used in) in financing activities 78,327 33,953 (41,253 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (63,088 ) 55,459 38,521 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 145,078 89,619 51,098 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 81,990 $ 145,078 $ 89,619 See accompanying notes. 112 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Organization and Presentation Organization Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (“Sunrise” or the “Company”) is a provider of senior living services in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. Sunrise was incorporated in Delaware on December 14, 1994. At December 31, 2006, Sunrise operated 440 communities, including 412 communities in the United States, 11 communities in Canada, 12 communities in the United Kingdom and five communities in Germany, with a total resident capacity of approximately 52,000. Sunrise communities offer a full range of personalized senior living services, from independent living, to assisted living, to care for individuals with Alzheimer’s and other forms of memory loss, to nursing, rehabilitative care and hospice services. Sunrise develops senior living communities for itself, for unconsolidated ventures in which it retains an ownership interest and for third parties. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) include Sunrise’s wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries. Variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which Sunrise has an interest have been consolidated when Sunrise has been identified as the primary beneficiary. Commencing with Sunrise’s adoption of EITF 04-5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights (“EITF 04-5”), entities in which Sunrise holds the managing member or general partner interest are consolidated unless the other members or partners have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the entity or otherwise remove Sunrise without cause or (2) substantive participating rights, which provide the other partner or member with the ability to effectively participate in the significant decisions that would be expected to be made in the ordinary course of business. EITF 04-5 was effective June 30, 2005 for new or modified limited partnership arrangements and effective January 1, 2006 for existing limited partnership arrangements. There are no previously unconsolidated entities that required consolidation as a result of adoption of EITF 04-5. Investments in ventures in which Sunrise has the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have control over are accounted for using the equity method. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Stock Split In October 2005, Sunrise completed a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. As a result of the stock split, each stockholder of record at the close of business on September 20, 2005 received one additional share of common stock for each share held on that date. All share and per share amounts in Sunrise’s consolidated financial statements and related notes have been adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. 2. Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements Overview The accompanying financial statements as of December 31, 2005 and for each of the two years in the period then ended have been restated. The restatement primarily resulted from adjustments related to accounting for owned real estate projects, investments in real estate ventures, revenue recognition related to development contracts of Greystone Communities, Inc. (“Greystone”), which Sunrise acquired in 2005, and stock-based compensation as described in further detail below. The tables that follow provide reconciliation between amounts previously reported and the restated amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, certain of the adjustments impacted periods prior to 2004 and the net effect of these prior adjustments is an $101.1 million reduction in total stockholders’ equity at January 1, 2004. 113 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Accounting for Real Estate Sales Since 1997, Sunrise has entered into various real estate transactions, the most significant of which involved either (i) the sale of a partial interest in a development venture in which Sunrise retained an interest and entered into a management contract or (ii) the sale of mature senior living properties or a partial interest in such properties to a third party where Sunrise simultaneously entered into a management contract. In most cases, Sunrise retained some form of continuing involvement including a partial ownership interest with preferences to the buyer, an obligation to complete the development, operating deficit funding obligations, support obligations or, in some instances, options or obligations to reacquire the property or the buyer’s interest in the property. The following describes the sale accounting issues adjusted in the restatement. In certain projects, Sunrise acquired land and commenced development activities in a newly formed, wholly owned venture (generally owned in the legal form as a limited liability company). Sunrise sold a majority of the venture interests to a third party and recapitalized the venture while development of the project was underway. Sunrise acted as the developer and earned development fees from the venture. In addition, Sunrise sold certain senior living properties or a partial interest in such properties to a third party where Sunrise simultaneously entered into a management contract. Sunrise previously recognized income for such transactions to the extent cash received from the new venture exceeded the proportionate cost of the venture’s assets. Sunrise has reviewed all ventures entered into between 1997 and 2005 and has corrected the accounting for these transactions to consider the adequacy of the initial investment and various forms of continuing involvement as set forth in FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate (“SFAS 66”). Initial Investment and Options to Reacquire In four transactions, the buyer’s initial investment was not adequate to achieve sale accounting treatment and under SFAS 66 the Company has now applied the deposit method. For an additional two transactions Sunrise retained the option to repurchase the property at a stated rate of return to the other venturer and under SFAS 66 the Company has now applied the financing method of accounting. Under both of these methods (which are described in more detail in Note 3) the real estate remains on Sunrise’s books and any amounts received from the buyer are recorded as a liability. Cash Flow Preferences In most instances, when a partial sale as described above occurred, the other venturer received a preference as to the cash flows of the venture. Historically, Sunrise did not consider these preferences in accounting for the sale of real estate. When transactions with these preferences exist, Sunrise has now applied all cash proceeds received from the venture against its remaining investment and profit is recognized only to the extent that proceeds from the sale exceed costs related to the entire property. Continuing Support Obligations Sunrise provided an uncapped guaranteed return on investment to the buyers in sale transactions for many of the mature communities. Historically, Sunrise did not recognize the impact of these guarantees unless they considered payment under the guarantees to be probable. However, when these forms of guarantees exist for an extended period of time, SFAS 66 precludes sale accounting and the Company has now applied the profit sharing method regardless of the probability of payment. If the guarantee is for a limited period of time, the deposit method has now been applied until the operations of the property cover all operating expenses, debt service, and contractual payments. At that time, profit is recognized on the basis of performance of services method as described below. Under both the deposit and profit sharing method, the property remains on Sunrise’s books and depreciation continues. Of the sale transactions evaluated, Sunrise identified four that are for an extended period of time and 114 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) revised the accounting to the profit sharing method, while ten were revised to the deposit method and the performance of services method of accounting due to the limited period of time covered by the guarantees. Sunrise also provided uncapped guarantees to support operations of certain ventures. If the guarantees are for an extended period of time, the Company applied the profit sharing method and the property remained on Sunrise’s books, net of any cash proceeds received from the buyer. If the guarantees are for a limited period of time, partial sale accounting was achieved; however, profit is recognized by the basis of performance of service method under SFAS 66. Under the basis of performance of service method, performance of those services is measured by the costs incurred and to be incurred (including operating costs of the venture) over the period during which the services are performed. Profit is recognized when there is reasonable assurance that future rent receipts will cover operating expenses and debt service. Of the sale transactions evaluated, Sunrise identified three where the guarantees are for an extended period of time and revised the accounting to the profit sharing method and eight where the guarantees are for a limited period and were revised to be on the basis of performance of service method. The impact to previously reported 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was an increase in 2005 of $48.9 million and a reduction in 2004 of $57.3 million. Accounting for Costs of Real Estate Projects In connection with Sunrise’s development activities, Sunrise historically capitalized costs incurred for projects under development prior to acquisition of the land or purchase of an option to acquire the land. Sunrise then provided a reserve for project costs that may not be realizable based upon an estimated probability of success of the project. Sunrise also capitalized certain indirect costs to active projects where such costs were not clearly related to those projects. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 67, Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects (“SFAS 67”), preacquisition costs must be expensed as incurred unless: (i) the costs are directly identifiable with a specific property; (ii) the costs would be capitalized if the property were already acquired; and (iii) acquisition of the property is probable. In addition, indirect costs that are not clearly related to projects should be expensed as incurred. Sunrise has now capitalized only those costs that meet the criteria set forth above and has allocated such costs to specifically identifiable projects. In addition, Sunrise has historically capitalized direct and indirect costs relating to the sales and marketing of condominium units which were being developed for sale to residents. SFAS 67 allows for capitalization of costs for tangible assets used throughout the selling process and other direct costs where their recovery is reasonably expected to be recovered from future sales. Sunrise now capitalizes only those direct costs that are reasonably expected to be recovered from future sales and has charged all indirect costs (advertising, promotion, etc.) to expense as incurred. Tangible assets that are expected to be recovered through future sales continue to be capitalized. Accounting for Equity Method Investments with Preferences Sunrise historically recognized its share of profit or loss of ventures which it accounts for using the equity method of accounting based on the percentage of Sunrise’s legal ownership interest in the venture. In accordance with Statement of Position No. 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures, (“SOP 78-9”) the allocation of profit and losses should be analyzed to determine how an increase or decrease in the net assets of the venture (determined in conformity with GAAP) will affect cash payments to the investor over the life of the venture and on its liquidation. Because certain venture agreements contain preferences with regard to cash flows from operations, capital events and/or liquidation, the allocation of profits and losses previously recorded by Sunrise was not consistent with the provisions of SOP 78-9. Sunrise has restated its accounting to reflect its share of profits and losses by determining the difference between its “claim on the investee’s book value” at the end and the beginning of the period. This claim is calculated as the amount that the investor would receive (or be obligated to pay) if the investee were to liquidate all of its assets at recorded amounts determined in accordance with GAAP and distribute 115 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) the resulting cash to creditors and investors in accordance with their respective priorities. This method is commonly referred to as the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. The impact to previously reported 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was a decrease of $4.0 million and $4.1 million, respectively. Revenue Recognition for Greystone Contracts Included in “Professional fees from development, marketing and other” are fees earned by our Greystone subsidiary related to its development consulting agreements. From the acquisition date of May 10, 2005 through December 31, 2005, revenues were recognized based on billing milestones scheduled in the agreements. During the course of the accounting restatement, Sunrise determined that these were multiple element arrangements. Since there is not sufficient objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered elements at each billing milestone, we must defer revenue recognition until the completion of the development contract. The adjustment to operating revenues for 2005 was a reduction of $13.0 million. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation As part of the restatement, Sunrise determined that certain stock option grants were not properly accounted for in Sunrise’s historical financial statements. A summary of the categories related to the stock option restatement follows (in thousands): Cumulative Amount of Restatement Adjustments Category of Restatement (pre-tax) September 14, 1998 Stock Option Repricing $ 27,302 Cancellation and Reissuance of Stock Options 6,144 Modification of Stock Option Awards 2,578 Grant of Stock Options to CEO 3,213 Other Miscellaneous Stock Option Issues 4,274 $ 43,511 September 14, 1998 Stock Option Repricing On September 14, 1998, the Stock Option Committee granted replacement options to all employees, officers and directors who held outstanding stock options with an exercise price above $14.50 per share. The replacement options had an exercise price of $12.50 per share. The vesting terms and all other operative terms, other than the exercise price, remained the same, except for an increase in the vesting period for four officers. The original options were not canceled and the replacement options were not issued until Sunrise received the signed offer letter back from the optionee. The signed offer letter constituted an irrevocable acceptance of the terms and conditions of the replacement options. The signed offer letters were received by Sunrise on various dates in late 1998 and early 1999. Sunrise’s historical accounting did not recognize any compensation expense associated with this modification to reduce the exercise price nor did Sunrise recognize any compensation expense associated with this repricing pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, (“FIN 44”), when Sunrise began applying its provisions on July 1, 2000. Sunrise has determined that the measurement date for the replacement stock options should have been the date that the Company acknowledged receipt of the signed offer letter for each optionee from the employees, officers and/or directors. Accordingly, the accounting has been adjusted to reflect the revised measurement date. For offer letters received and acknowledged by Sunrise prior to December 15, 1998, Sunrise has determined the appropriate 116 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) intrinsic value, as required under APB 25 and its interpretations, and recognized additional compensation expense over the stock options remaining vesting period. For offer letters received on December 15, 1998 or later, in addition to the determination of intrinsic value to recognize over the remaining vesting period, as of July 1, 2000 and the adoption of FIN 44, Sunrise has recognized additional compensation expense under the variable method of accounting. Under the variable method of accounting, compensation expense is adjusted each reporting period based on changes in the quoted market value of the stock. The revision of the measurement date for these repriced options impacted approximately 270 grants for approximately 3,062,000 options and has resulted in additional stock compensation expense of approximately $27.3 million on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2005, including approximately $25.9 million for periods prior to 2004. The impact to previously reported 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was a reduction of $1.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Cancellation and Reissuance of Stock Options From 1999 through 2001, Sunrise entered into several agreements with employees and officers to either cancel certain stock options and grant replacement options in the future, or grant new stock options with the agreement that the employee or officer would voluntarily cancel previously issued stock options in the future. The canceled options had exercise prices that were significantly above the then-current market price of Sunrise stock (i.e., the stock options were “out-of-the-money”). Sunrise’s historical accounting did not recognize any compensation expense because the exercise price of the options issued was equal to the then-current fair value of the Sunrise’s common stock on the grant date. FIN 44 clarified and interpreted several aspects of APB 25 that had been previously applied inconsistently by companies. One issue addressed by FIN 44 was how to account for an option that is canceled where, concurrently, Sunrise agrees (through an oral or written agreement or implicit promise) to make a replacement option grant sometime in the future, or Sunrise issues new options with a prearranged agreement to cancel certain options in the future. If the employee or the officer was not subject to market risk or volatility of the Sunrise’s stock for a specified period, variable accounting is required for the replacement option. Sunrise determined that variable accounting was required for approximately 916,000 replacement options, which resulted in additional stock compensation expense of approximately $6.1 million on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2005, including approximately $5.2 million for periods prior to 2004. The impact to previously reported 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was a reduction of $0.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Modification of Stock Option Awards From 1998 through 2005, Sunrise entered into agreements with employees to modify specific terms under the stock option agreement to allow for accelerated vesting of options or the extension of the expiration period of vested options. These modifications allowed employees to exercise options that they would not otherwise have been able to exercise. In such situations, Sunrise should have recognized compensation expense for the difference between the modified options’ exercise price and the fair market value of our common stock on the date of modification. However, this charge was not properly recorded in our historical financial statements. Sunrise has determined that additional compensation should have been recognized for approximately 30 grants totaling approximately 530,000 options. This additional compensation expense totaled approximately $2.6 million on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2005, including approximately $2.2 million for periods prior to 2004. The impact to previously reported 2005 and 2004 pre-tax income was a reduction of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively. 117 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Grant of Stock Options to CEO During 2000, the Compensation Committee of Sunrise’s Board of Directors negotiated an employment contract with our CEO, Paul Klaassen. As part of the employment agreement, our CEO was granted 700,000 options. While approval by the Compensation Committee occurred in September 2000, the final required granting action was the approval of the employment agreement by the Board of Directors, which did not occur until November 2000. In that time period, the fair value of our common stock increased. In 2000, Sunrise did not record this additional compensation expense. Sunrise has determined that additional compensation expense totaled approximately $3.2 million on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2005. All of this expense related to periods prior to 2004. Other Miscellaneous Stock Option Issues Sunrise also identified several other less significant measurement date issues of approximately $4.3 million that were corrected. The total amount of additional stock compensation expense identified in the Company’s accounting review as part of its restatement (“Accounting Review”) is $43.5 million, prior to the tax impact, on a cumulative basis for all periods through December 31, 2005, of which $40.5 million relates to periods prior to 2004. Stock compensation expense is increased by $2.3 million and $0.7 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The stock compensation expense is offset by an increase to contributed capital so there is no net impact to total stockholders’ equity resulting from this restatement adjustment. Accounting for Reimbursed Expenses Consistent with EITF Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent (“EITF 99-19”), expenses incurred by Sunrise and reimbursed by a managed community are reported as community contract services reimbursement expense with corresponding reimbursement revenue in Sunrise’s Consolidated Statements of Income. Sunrise manages most of its communities under contracts which provide payment to Sunrise of a monthly management fee plus reimbursement of certain operating expenses, including payroll and related expenses of Sunrise employees, and food, supplies or services acquired by Sunrise for the communities. Sunrise has determined that errors occurred in the accumulation of these amounts resulting in an overstatement of the reported costs and related reimbursement revenue. Sunrise has adjusted both reimbursed expenses and revenues in the restated statements of income to correct these errors. The adjustments of these amounts had no impact on previously reported pre-tax income. Other Adjustments Sunrise also adjusted its financial statements for other less significant adjustments that were found as part of the Accounting Review, including interest capitalized on equity method investments, health insurance reimbursements, income taxes accounting for certain guarantees and accounting for variable interest entities. None of these adjustments are individually in excess of 3% of the total cumulative restatement net income impact. 118 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) The financial information presented in the table below has been adjusted to reflect the incremental impact on previously reported pre-tax and after-tax net income amounts resulting from the restatement adjustments discussed above. They are as follows (in thousands): Equity Cost of Method Real Real Investments Greystone Total Tax Total Estate Estate with Stock-Based Revenue Other Adjustments Effects of Adjustments Year Sales Projects Preferences Compensation Recognition Adjustments Pre-Tax Adjustments Net of Tax 1996 (unaudited) $ — $ — $ — $ (92 ) $ — $ — $ (92 ) $ 36 $ (56 ) 1997 (unaudited) 67 — — (770 ) — — (703 ) 274 (429 ) 1998 (unaudited) (772 ) — — (4,087 ) — — (4,859 ) 1,895 (2,964 ) 1999 (unaudited) (12,141 ) — — (12,336 ) — — (24,477 ) 9,546 (14,931 ) 2000 (unaudited) (24,345 ) (743 ) (26,850 ) (7,929 ) — (1,268 ) (61,135 ) 23,033 (38,102 ) 2001 (unaudited) (13,924 ) (1,600 ) 22,974 (7,583 ) — (1,366 ) (1,499 ) 1,119 (380 ) 2002 (unaudited) (28,148 ) (4,168 ) 962 (3,547 ) — (5,064 ) (39,965 ) 13,618 (26,347 ) 2003 (unaudited) (57,942 ) (2,197 ) (4,016 ) (4,224 ) — (8,369 ) (76,748 ) 29,279 (47,469 ) Cumulative effect on Jan. 1, 2004 opening retained earnings (137,205 ) (8,708 ) (6,930 ) (40,568 ) — (16,067 ) (209,478 ) 78,800 (130,678 ) 2004 (57,259 ) (5,036 ) (4,112 ) (688 ) — (12,731 ) (79,826 ) 32,255 (47,571 ) 2005 48,893 (2,336 ) (4,024 ) (2,255 ) (13,034 ) (11,645 ) 15,599 (10,252 ) 5,347 Total $ (145,571 ) $ (16,080 ) $ (15,066 ) $ (43,511 ) $ (13,034 ) $ (40,443 ) $ (273,705 ) $ 100,803 $ (172,902 ) The financial statement impact of the restatement on previously reported stock-based compensation expense, including income tax impact by year, is as follows (in thousands): Stock- Stock- Stock- Income Tax Stock-Based Based Based Based Effect Relating Compensation Compensation Compensation Compensation to Stock-Based Expense Previously Expense Expense As Compensation Net of Year Reported Adjustment Restated Expense Income Tax 1996 (unaudited) $ — $ 92 $ 92 $ (36 ) $ 56 1997 (unaudited) — 770 770 (300 ) 470 1998 (unaudited) — 4,087 4,087 (1,594 ) 2,493 1999 (unaudited) — 12,336 12,336 (4,811 ) 7,525 2000 (unaudited) — 7,929 7,929 (3,092 ) 4,837 2001 (unaudited) — 7,583 7,583 (2,958 ) 4,625 2002 (unaudited) 700 3,547 4,247 (1,614 ) 2,633 2003 (unaudited) 2,728 4,224 6,952 (2,704 ) 4,248 Cumulative effect on Jan. 1, 2004 opening retained earnings 3,428 40,568 43,996 (17,109 ) 26,887 2004 2,100 688 2,788 (1,091 ) 1,697 2005 3,200 2,255 5,455 (2,124 ) 3,331 Total $ 8,728 $ 43,511 $ 52,239 $ (20,324 ) $ 31,915 119 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Effect of Restatement Adjustments Statements of Income The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated, giving effect to the restatement adjustments described above and showing previously reported amounts and restated amounts for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In addition, the table includes amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation, including separately disclosing buy out fees which were previously included in management fees, separately disclosing provision for doubtful accounts which was included in general and administrative, and separately disclosing the write-off of unamortized contract costs which were included in depreciation and amortization. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Income Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 As As Previously Increase As Previously Increase As (in thousands except per share amounts): Reported (Decrease) Restated Reported (Decrease) Restated Operating revenue: Management fees $ 188,005 $ (83,182 ) $ 104,823 $ 90,184 $ (2,679 ) $ 87,505 Buyout fees — 83,036 83,036 — — — Professional fees 40,715 (15,795 ) 24,920 16,775 (5,826 ) 10,949 Resident and ancillary fees 355,151 29,516 384,667 342,786 23,838 366,624 Reimbursable contract services 1,235,608 (323,616 ) 911,992 996,726 (194,164 ) 802,562 Total operating revenues 1,819,479 (310,041 ) 1,509,438 1,446,471 (178,831 ) 1,267,640 Operating expenses: Development and venture expense 31,541 10,425 41,966 14,638 8,707 23,345 Community and ancillary 272,616 23,493 296,109 258,667 17,290 275,957 Community lease expense 48,401 1,369 49,770 47,085 (107 ) 46,978 General and administrative 90,716 15,885 106,601 72,362 13,718 86,080 Provision for doubtful accounts — 1,675 1,675 — 2,325 2,325 Impairment of long-lived assets 2,472 2,472 — — — Depreciation and amortization 43,432 (451 ) 42,981 21,378 18,649 40,027 Write-off of unamortized contract costs — 14,609 14,609 — — — Reimbursable contract services 1,235,608 (323,616 ) 911,992 996,726 (194,164 ) 802,562 Total operating expenses 1,722,314 (254,139 ) 1,468,175 1,410,856 (133,582 ) 1,277,274 (Loss) income from operations 97,165 (55,902 ) 41,263 35,615 (45,249 ) (9,634 ) Other non-operating income (expense): Interest income 6,977 (746 ) 6,231 8,533 (2,943 ) 5,590 Interest expense (3,518 ) (8,364 ) (11,882 ) (7,069 ) (5,246 ) (12,315 ) Gain on investments — 2,036 2,036 — — — Other income (expense) 3,939 (834 ) 3,105 — 4,111 4,111 Total other non-operating income (expense) 7,398 (7,908 ) (510 ) 1,464 (4,078 ) (2,614 ) Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests 9,230 72,493 81,723 34,684 (20,659 ) 14,025 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities 13,235 237 13,472 9,394 (7,886 ) 1,508 Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method — (857 ) (857 ) — (1,578 ) (1,578 ) Minority interests (815 ) 7,536 6,721 (701 ) (377 ) (1,078 ) Income before provision for income taxes 126,213 $ 15,599 141,812 80,456 (79,827 ) 629 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (46,471 ) (8,252 ) (54,723 ) (29,769 ) 30,254 485 Net income $ 79,742 $ 7,347 $ 87,089 $ 50,687 $ (49,573 ) $ 1,114 Earnings per share data: Basic net income per common share $ 1.92 $ 0.18 $ 2.10 $ 1.25 $ (1.22 ) $ 0.03 Diluted net income per common share 1.67 0.15 1.82 1.12 (1.09 ) 0.03 120 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Balance Sheets The following table sets forth the consolidated balance sheets for Sunrise, giving effect to the restatement adjustments described above and showing previously reported amounts and restated amounts as of December 31, 2005. In addition, the table includes amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation including separately disclosing current restricted cash, prepaid insurance which was previously included in prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses and self-insurance liabilities, all of which were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheet December 31, 2005 As Previously Increase As (in thousands) Reported (Decrease) Restated ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 225,279 $ (80,201 ) $ 145,078 Accounts receivable, net 59,384 (838 ) 58,546 Notes receivable, net 16,461 — 16,461 Due from unconsolidated communities 58,358 (4,102 ) 54,256 Deferred income taxes, net 20,721 (196 ) 20,525 Restricted cash 11,609 11,609 Prepaid insurance — 4,338 4,338 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 36,569 (20,494 ) 16,075 Total current assets 416,772 (89,884 ) 326,888 Property and equipment, net 458,546 35,523 494,069 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net — 255,231 255,231 Property and equipment subject to financing, net — 64,174 64,174 Note receivable 6,325 (2,369 ) 3,956 Intangible assets, net 86,241 10,433 96,674 Goodwill 165,028 (11,700 ) 153,328 Investments in unconsolidated communities 137,905 (74,565 ) 63,340 Investments accounted for under the profit sharing method — 558 558 Investments 7,589 (1,979 ) 5,610 Restricted cash — 106,176 106,176 Other assets, net 49,870 (32,089 ) 17,781 Total assets $ 1,328,276 $ 259,509 $ 1,587,785 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 51,368 $ 1,004 $ 52,372 Accounts payable 256,173 (242,524 ) 13,649 Accrued expenses — 158,619 158,619 Deferred revenue 8,415 (695 ) 7,720 Entrance fees 25,953 1,008 26,961 Self-insurance liabilities — 21,363 21,363 Total current liabilities 341,909 (61,225 ) 280,684 Long-term debt, less current maturities 151,421 44,603 196,024 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract — 324,782 324,782 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method — 64,208 64,208 Investments accounted for under the profit sharing method — 5,664 5,664 Guarantee liabilities — 4,444 4,444 Self-insurance liabilities — 62,823 62,823 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues — 28,226 28,226 Deferred income tax liabilities 165,957 (87,953 ) 78,004 Other long-term liabilities, net 32,131 5,699 37,830 Total liabilities 691,418 391,271 1,082,689 Minority interests 4,181 8,531 12,712 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 435 — 435 Additional paid-in capital 294,400 31,807 326,207 Retained earnings 351,538 (172,904 ) 178,634 Deferred compensation — restricted stock (12,323 ) — (12,323 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (1,373 ) 804 (569 ) Total stockholders’ equity 632,677 (140,293 ) 492,384 Commitments and contingencies Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,328,276 $ 259,509 $ 1,587,785 121 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) The following table sets forth the consolidated balance sheets for Sunrise, giving effect to the restatement adjustments described above and showing previously reported amounts and restated amounts as of December 31, 2004. In addition, the table includes amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation including separately disclosing current restricted cash, prepaid insurance, which was previously included in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and accounts payable, accrued expenses and self-insurance liabilities, all of which were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheet December 31, 2004 As Previously Increase As (in thousands) Reported (Decrease) Restated ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 141,883 $ (52,264 ) $ 89,619 Short-term investments 14,900 — 14,900 Accounts receivable, net 61,999 397 62,396 Notes receivable, net 2,875 — 2,875 Due from unconsolidated communities 55,823 (7,846 ) 47,977 Deferred income taxes, net 25,412 14,049 39,461 Restricted cash — 8,308 8,308 Prepaid insurance — 13,289 13,289 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 27,803 (24,104 ) 3,699 Total current assets 330,695 (48,171 ) 282,524 Property and equipment, net 369,632 (10,562 ) 359,070 Property and equipment subject to a sales contract, net — 473,485 473,485 Property and equipment — subject to financing, net — 28,988 28,988 Note receivable 40,700 (14,278 ) 26,422 Intangible assets, net 83,336 (8,355 ) 74,981 Goodwill 123,713 (1,888 ) 121,825 Investments in unconsolidated communities 93,016 (60,017 ) 32,999 Investments accounted for under the profit sharing method — 2,553 2,553 Investments 7,416 (1,805 ) 5,611 Investment in Sunrise REIT debentures 20,757 — 20,757 Restricted cash — 65,646 65,646 Other assets, net 36,491 (24,899 ) 11,592 Total assets $ 1,105,756 $ 400,697 $ 1,506,453 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current maturities of long-term debt $ 35,264 $ — $ 35,264 Accounts payable -0- 8,972 8,972 Accrued expenses 185,219 (70,414 ) 114,805 Deferred revenue 6,202 (2,707 ) 3,495 Entrance fees 25,866 — 25,866 Self-insurance liabilities — 15,596 15,596 Total current liabilities 252,551 (48,553 ) 203,998 Long-term debt, less current maturities 156,402 — 156,402 Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract — 599,071 599,071 Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method — 24,247 24,247 Investments accounted for under the profit sharing method — 5,413 5,413 Guarantee Liabilities — 1,540 1,540 Self-insurance liabilities — 46,705 46,705 Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenue — 6,986 6,986 Deferred income taxes 148,790 (85,153 ) 63,637 Other long-term liabilities, net 22,915 4,256 27,171 Total liabilities 580,658 554,512 1,135,170 Minority interests 1,580 — 1,580 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 412 — 412 Additional paid-in capital 247,999 31,116 279,115 Retained earnings 271,796 (180,250 ) 91,546 Deferred compensation — restricted stock (4,535 ) — (4,535 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 7,846 (4,681 ) 3,165 Total stockholders’ equity 523,518 (153,815 ) 369,703 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,105,756 $ 400,697 $ 1,506,453 122 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Cash Flows The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows for the periods indicated, giving effect to the restatement adjustments described above and showing previously reported amounts and restated amounts for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In addition, the table includes amounts that have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation, including separately disclosing the write-off of unamortized contract costs which was previously included in depreciation and amortization and self-insurance liabilities which was included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 As As Previously Increase As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated Reported (Decrease) Restated Operating activities Net income $ 79,742 $ 7,347 $ 87,089 $ 50,687 $ (49,573 ) $ 1,114 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Gain on sale and development of real estate and equity interests (9,230 ) (72,493 ) (81,723 ) (34,684 ) 20,659 (14,025 ) Gain on sale of Sunrise REIT Debentures (3,939 ) 1,903 (2,036 ) — — — Gain from application of financing method — (528 ) (528 ) — — — Gain from investment accounted for under the profit-sharing method — 857 857 — 1,578 1,578 Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities (13,235 ) (188 ) (13,423 ) (9,394 ) 4,389 (5,005 ) Impairment of long-lived assets — 2,472 2,472 — — — Write-off of unamortized contract costs — 15,395 15,395 — — — Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated communities 8,293 18,602 26,895 7,501 (988 ) 6,513 Minority interests in income/loss of controlled entities 815 (7,536 ) (6,721 ) 701 377 1,078 Provision for bad debts 1,531 144 1,675 1,364 961 2,325 Provision for deferred income taxes 21,858 10,067 31,925 17,843 (27,965 ) (9,795 ) Depreciation and amortization 43,432 (1,237 ) 42,195 21,378 18,649 40,027 Write-off of capitalized project costs — 2,336 2,336 — 5,036 5,036 Amortization of financing costs 1,483 — 1,483 2,018 — 2,018 Amortization of deferred compensation 3,210 2,255 5,465 2,119 763 2,882 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: (Increase) decrease in Accounts receivable 13,196 (9,346 ) 3,850 (12,835 ) (961 ) (13,796 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets (22,207 ) 18,782 (3,425 ) (26,310 ) 23,098 (3,212 ) Due from unconsolidated communities — (6,279 ) (6,279 ) — (16,146 ) (16,146 ) Other assets 2,671 (8,860 ) (6,189 ) (2,517 ) — (2,517 ) Increase (decrease) in: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 68,755 (6,528 ) 62,227 66,926 (25,077 ) 41,849 Entrance fees 87 1,008 1,095 997 1 998 Self-insurance liabilities — 21,885 21,885 — 24,038 24,038 Deferred revenue and gains on the sale of real estate 2,288 30,746 33,034 431 20,659 21,090 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 198,750 20,804 219,554 86,225 (502 ) 86,050 123 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 As As Previously Increase As Previously Increase As Reported (Decrease) Restated Reported (Decrease) Restated Investing activities Capital expenditures (134,291 ) — (134,291 ) (110,662 ) — (110,989 ) Acquisition of business assets (75,532 ) — (75,532 ) — — — Cash obtained in consolidation of Greystone — 10,922 10,922 — — — Cash obtained from Sunrise At Home 1,138 (1,138 ) — — — — Disposition of property 56,246 — 56,246 146,139 — 146,139 Purchases of short-term investments (62,825 ) — (62,825 ) (26,350 ) — (26,350 ) Proceeds from short-term investments 77,725 — 77,725 11,450 — 11,450 Increase in investments and notes receivable (158,697 ) — (158,697 ) (159,825 ) — (159,825 ) Proceeds from investments and notes receivable 187,042 — 187,042 141,082 — 141,082 Change in restricted cash (3,908 ) (39,923 ) (43,831 ) 12,762 (1,300 ) 11,462 Contributions to unconsolidated communities (64,080 ) — (64,080 ) (27,987 ) — (27,987 ) Distributions from unconsolidated communities 27,875 (18,602 ) 9,273 7,754 988 8,742 Net cash used in investing activities (149,307 ) (48,741 ) (198,048 ) (5,637 ) (312 ) (6,276 ) Financing activities Net proceeds from exercised options 29,065 — 29,065 29,726 — 29,726 Additional borrowings of long-term debt 148,539 1,000 149,539 112,781 — 112,781 Repayment of long-term debt (137,296 ) — (137,296 ) (119,451 ) — (119,451 ) Capital contributed by At Home stockholders 5,000 — 5,000 — — — Distribution to minority interest (1,021 ) — (1,021 ) (724 ) — (724 ) Financing costs paid (1,622 ) (1,000 ) (2,622 ) (392 ) — (392 ) Repurchases of common stock (8,712 ) — (8,712 ) (63,193 ) — (63,193 ) Net cash provided by (used in) in financing activities 33,953 — 33,953 (41,253 ) — (41,253 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 83,396 (27,937 ) 55,459 39,335 (814 ) 38,521 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 141,883 (52,264 ) 89,619 102,548 (51,450 ) 51,098 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 225,279 $ (80,201 ) $ 145,078 $ 141,883 $ (52,264 ) $ 89,619 124 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 3. Significant Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents Sunrise considers cash and cash equivalents to include currency on hand, demand deposits, and all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase. Restricted Cash Sunrise utilizes large deductible blanket insurance programs in order to contain costs for certain lines of insurance risks including workers’ compensation and employers’ liability risks, automobile liability risk, employment practices liability risk and general and professional liability risks (“Self-Insured Risks”). Sunrise has self-insured a portion of the Self-Insured Risks through its wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary, Sunrise Senior Living Insurance, Inc. (the “Sunrise Captive”). The Sunrise Captive issues policies of insurance to and receives premiums from Sunrise that are reimbursed through expense allocations to each operated community and Sunrise. The Sunrise Captive pays the costs for each claim above a deductible up to a per claim limit. Cash held by Sunrise Captive is available to pay claims. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the self-insurance liability was $114.4 million and $84.2 million, respectively, and the cash held by the Sunrise Captive was $95.3 million and $46.4 million, respectively. The earnings from the investment of the cash of Sunrise Captive are used to pay the liabilities of Sunrise Captive. Restricted cash also includes escrow accounts related to other insurance programs, land deposits and other items. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Sunrise provides an allowance for doubtful accounts on its outstanding receivables based on an analysis of collectibility, including its collection history and generally does not require collateral to support outstanding balances. Notes Receivable Sunrise on occasion may provide financing to unconsolidated ventures at negotiated interest rates. These loans are included in “Notes receivable” in the consolidated balance sheets. The collectibility of these notes is monitored based on the current performance of the ventures, the budgets and projections for future performance. If circumstances were to suggest that any amounts with respect to these notes would be uncollectible, Sunrise would establish a reserve to write-down the notes to their net realizable value and generally does not require collateral to support outstanding balances. Due from Unconsolidated Communities Due from unconsolidated communities represents amounts due from unconsolidated ventures for development and management costs, including development fees, operating costs such as payroll and insurance costs, and management fees. Development costs are reimbursed when third-party financing is obtained by the affiliate. Operating costs are generally reimbursed within thirty days. Property and Equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the lesser of the estimated useful lives of the related assets or the remaining lease term. Repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. 125 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) In conjunction with the acquisition, development and construction of communities, preacquisition costs are expensed as incurred until we determine that the costs are directly identifiable with a specific property, the costs would be capitalized if the property were already acquired, and acquisition of the property is probable. Upon acquisition of the land, the Company commences capitalization of all direct and indirect project costs clearly associated with the development and construction of the community. Sunrise expenses indirect costs as incurred that are not clearly related to projects. Sunrise charges direct costs to the projects to which they relate. If a project is abandoned, we expense any costs previously capitalized. We capitalize the cost of the corporate development department based on the time employees devote to each project. We capitalize interest as described in “Capitalization of Interest Related to Development Projects” and other carrying costs to the project and the capitalization period continues until the asset is ready for its intended use or is abandoned. We capitalize the cost of tangible assets used throughout the selling process and other direct costs, provided that their recovery is reasonably expected from future sales. The Company reviews the carrying amounts of long-lived assets for impairment when indicators of impairment are identified. If the carrying amount of the long-lived asset (group) exceeds the undiscounted expected cash flows that are directly associated with the use and eventual disposition of the asset (group) Sunrise records an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. Sunrise determines the fair value of long-lived assets based upon valuation techniques that include prices for similar assets (group). Real Estate Sales The Company accounts for sales of real estate in accordance with FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate (“SFAS 66”). For sales transactions meeting the requirements of SFAS 66 for full accrual profit recognition, the related assets and liabilities are removed from the balance sheet and the gain or loss is recorded in the period the transaction closes. For sales transactions that do not meet the criteria for full accrual profit recognition, the Company accounts for the transactions in accordance with the methods specified in SFAS 66. For sales transactions that do not contain continuing involvement following the sale or if the continuing involvement with the property is contractually limited by the terms of the sales contract, profit is recognized at the time of sale. This profit is then reduced by the maximum exposure to loss related to the contractually limited continuing involvement. Sales to entities in which the Company has an interest are accounted for in accordance with partial sale accounting provisions as set forth in SFAS 66. For sales transactions that do not meet the full accrual sale criteria as set forth in SFAS 66, the Company evaluates the nature of the continuing involvement and accounts for the transaction under an alternate method of accounting rather than full accrual sale, based on the nature and extent of the continuing involvement. Some transactions may have numerous forms of continuing involvement. In those cases, the Company determines which method is most appropriate based on the substance of the transaction. Venture agreements may contain provisions which provide the Company with an option or obligation to repurchase the property from the venture at a fixed price that is higher than the sales price. In these instances, the financing method of accounting is followed. Under the financing method of accounting, the Company records the amounts received from the buyer as a financing obligation and continues to keep the property and related accounts recorded on its books. The results of operations of the property, net of expenses other than depreciation (net operating income), is reflected as “interest expense” on the financing obligation. Because the transaction includes an option or obligation to repurchase the asset at a higher price, interest is recorded to accrete the liability to the repurchase price. Depreciation expense continues to be recorded as a period expense. All cash paid or received by the Company is recorded as an adjustment to the financing obligation. If the repurchase option or obligation expires and all other criteria for profit recognition under the full accrual method have been met, a sale is recorded and gain is recognized. The assets are recorded in “Property and equipment subject to financing, net” in the consolidated 126 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) balance sheets, and the liabilities are recorded in “Liabilities related to properties accounted for under the financing method” in the consolidated balance sheets. In transactions accounted for as partial sales, the Company determines if the buyer of the majority equity interest in the venture was provided a preference as to cash flows in either an operating or a capital waterfall. If a cash flow preference has been provided, profit, including the Company’s development fee, is only recognizable to the extent that proceeds from the sale of the majority equity interest exceed costs related to the entire property. The Company also may provide a guarantee to support the operations of the properties. If the guarantees are for an extended period of time, the Company applies the profit-sharing method and the property remains on the books, net of any cash proceeds received from the buyer. If support is required for a limited period of time, sale accounting is achieved and profit on the sale may begin to be recognized on the basis of performance of the services required when there is reasonable assurance that future operating revenues will cover operating expenses and debt service. Under the profit-sharing method, the property portion of the Company’s net investment account is amortized over the life of the community’s fixed assets. Results of operations of the communities before depreciation, interest and fees paid to the Company is recorded as “Loss from investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method” in the consolidated statements of income. The net income from operations as adjusted is added to the investment account and losses are reflected as a reduction of the investment account. Distributions of operating cash flows to other venture partners are reflected as an additional expense. All cash paid or received by Sunrise is recorded as an adjustment to the investment account. These transactions are reflected in “Investments accounted for under the profit-sharing method” in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company provided a guaranteed return on investment to certain buyers of properties. When the guarantee is for an extended period of time, SFAS 66 precludes sale accounting and the Company applied the profit-sharing method. If the guarantee is required for a limited period of time, the deposit method is followed until operations of the property cover all operating expenses, debt service, and contractual payments, at which time profit is recognized under the performance of services method. Under the deposit method, the Company does not recognize any profit, and continues to report in its financial statements the property and related debt even if the debt has been assumed by the buyer, and discloses that those items are subject to a sales contract. The Company continues to record depreciation expense. All cash paid or received by the Company is recorded as an adjustment to the deposit. When the transaction qualifies for profit recognition under the full accrual method, the application of the deposit method is discontinued and the gain is recognized provided that there are no other forms of continuing involvement. The assets are recorded in “Property and equipment, subject to a sales contract, net” and the liabilities are recorded in “Deposits related to properties subject to a sales contract” in the consolidated balance sheets. Capitalization of Interest Related to Development Projects Interest is capitalized on real estate under development, including investments in ventures in accordance with SFAS No. 34, Capitalization of Interest Cost, (“SFAS 34”) and in accordance with FASB Statement No. 58, Capitalization of Interest Cost in Financial Statements That Include Investments Accounted for by the Equity Method (“SFAS 58”). Under SFAS 34 the capitalization period commences when development begins and continues until the asset is ready for its intended use or the enterprise suspends substantially all activities related to the acquisition of the asset. Under SFAS 58, Sunrise capitalizes interest on its investment in ventures for which the equity therein is utilized to construct buildings and ceases capitalizing interest on Sunrise’s equity investment when the first property in the portfolio commences operations. The amount of interest capitalized is based on the stated interest rates, including amortization of deferred financing costs. The calculation includes interest costs that theoretically could have been avoided, based on specific borrowings to the extent there are specific borrowings. When project specific borrowing do not exist or are less than the amount of qualifying assets, the calculation for such excess uses a weighted average of all other debt outstanding. 127 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Goodwill and Intangible Assets Sunrise capitalized costs incurred to acquire management, development and other contracts. In determining the allocation of the purchase price to net tangible and intangible assets acquired, Sunrise makes estimates of the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets using information obtained as a result of pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing, leasing activities and independent appraisals. Intangible assets are valued using expected discounted cash flows and are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining contract term, generally ranging from one to 30 years. The carrying amounts of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when indicators of impairment are identified. If the carrying amount of the asset (group) exceeds the undiscounted expected cash flows that are directly associated with the use and eventually dispositions of the asset (group), an impairment charge is recognized to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value. Goodwill represents the costs of business acquisitions in excess of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. Sunrise evaluates the fair value of goodwill to assess potential impairments on an annual basis, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that Sunrise may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. Sunrise evaluates the fair value of goodwill at the reporting unit level and makes the determination based upon future cash flow projections. Sunrise records an impairment loss for goodwill when the carrying value of the intangible assets is less than the estimated fair value. Investments in Unconsolidated Communities The Company holds a minority equity interest in ventures established to develop or acquire and own senior living communities. Those ventures are generally limited liability companies or limited partnerships. The equity interest in these ventures generally ranges from 10% to 50%. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46R”), the Company reviews all of its ventures to determine if they are variable interest entities. If a venture is a variable interest entity, it is consolidated by the primary beneficiary, which is the variable interest holder that absorbs the majority of the ventures expected losses, receives a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, or both. Sunrise performs an analysis for each of its ventures to determine if they are VIEs and, if so, to determine which variable interest holder is the primary beneficiary. At December 31, 2006, Sunrise consolidated eight variable interest entities where it is the primary beneficiary. In accordance with EITF 04-5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights, the general partner or managing member of a venture consolidates the venture unless the limited partners or other members have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the venture or otherwise remove the general partner or managing member without cause or (2) substantive participating rights in significant decisions of the venture, including authorizing operating and capital decisions of the venture, including budgets, in the ordinary course of business. The Company has reviewed all ventures that are not VIEs where it is the general partner or managing member and has determined that in all cases the limited partners or other members have substantive participating rights such as those set forth above and, therefore, no ventures are consolidated under EITF 04-5. For ventures not consolidated Sunrise applies the equity method of accounting in accordance with APB Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, and Statement of Position No. 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures, (“SOP 78-9”). Equity method investments are initially recorded at cost and subsequently are adjusted for the Company’s share of the venture’s earnings or losses and cash distributions. In accordance with SOP 78-9 the allocation of profit and losses should be analyzed to determine how an increase and decrease in net assets of the venture (determined in conformity with GAAP) will affect cash payments to the investor over the life of the venture and on its liquidation. Because certain venture agreements contain preferences with regard to cash flows from operations, capital events and/or liquidation, Sunrise 128 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) reflects its share of profits and losses by determining the difference between its “claim on the investee’s book value” at the end and the beginning of the period. This claim is calculated as the amount that the investor would receive (or be obligated to pay) if the investee were to liquidate all of its assets at recorded amounts determined in accordance with GAAP and distribute the resulting cash to creditors and investors in accordance with their respective priorities. This method is commonly referred to as the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. Sunrise’s reported share of earnings is adjusted for the impact, if any, of basis differences between the Company’s carrying value of the equity investment and its share of the venture’s underlying assets. The Company generally does not have future requirements to contribute additional capital over and above the original capital commitments, and in accordance with APB 18, the Company discontinues applying the equity method of accounting when its investment is reduced to zero barring an expectation of an imminent return to profitability. If the venture subsequently reports net income, the equity method of accounting is resumed only after the Company’s share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. When the majority equity partner in one of Sunrise’s ventures sells its equity interest to a third party, the venture frequently refinances its senior debt and distributes the net proceeds to the equity partners. All distributions received by Sunrise are first recorded as a reduction of Sunrise’s investment. Next, Sunrise records a liability for any contractual or implied future financial support to the venture including obligations in our role as a general partner. Any remaining distributions are recorded as “Sunrise’s share of earnings and return on investment in unconsolidated communities” in the consolidated statements of income. Sunrise evaluates realization of its investment in ventures accounted for using the equity method if circumstances indicate that its investment is other than temporarily impaired. Deferred Financing Costs Costs incurred in connection with obtaining permanent financing for Sunrise consolidated communities are deferred and amortized over the term of the financing using the effective interest method. Deferred financing costs are included in “Other assets” in the consolidated balance sheets. Loss Reserves For Certain Self-Insured Programs The Company offers a variety of insurance programs to the communities Sunrise operates. These programs include property insurance, general and professional liability insurance, excess/umbrella liability insurance, crime insurance, automobile liability and physical damage insurance, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability insurance and employment practices liability insurance (the “Insurance Program”). Each community Sunrise operates is charged its proportionate share of the cost of the Insurance Program. The Company utilizes large deductible blanket insurance programs in order to contain costs for certain of the lines of insurance risks in the Insurance Program including workers’ compensation and employers’ liability risks, automobile liability risk, employment practices liability risk and general and professional liability risks (“Self-Insured Risks”). The design and purpose of a large deductible insurance program is to reduce overall premium and claim costs by internally financing lower cost claims that are more predictable from year to year, while buying insurance only for higher-cost, less predictable claims. The Company has self-insured a portion of the Self-Insured Risks through the Sunrise Captive. The Sunrise Captive issues policies of insurance to and receives premiums from the Company that are reimbursed through expense allocation to each operated community and the Company. The Sunrise Captive pays the costs for each claim above a deductible up to a per claim limit. Third-party insurers are responsible for claim costs above this limit. These third-party insurers carry an A.M. Best rating of A-/VII or better. 129 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Sunrise records outstanding losses and expenses for all Self-Insured Risks and for claims under insurance policies issued by SCIC based on the recommendations of independent actuaries. The Company believes that the allowance for outstanding losses and expenses is appropriate to cover the ultimate cost of losses incurred at December 31, 2006, but the allowance may ultimately be settled for a greater or lesser amount. Any subsequent changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Employee Health and Dental Benefits Sunrise offers employees an option to participate in the Company’s self-insured health and dental plan. The cost of Sunrise employee health and dental benefits, net of employee contributions, is shared between Sunrise and the communities based on the respective number of participants working either at Sunrise’s corporate headquarters or at the communities. Funds collected are used to pay the actual program costs including estimated annual claims, third-party administrative fees, network provider fees, communication costs, and other related administrative costs incurred by Sunrise. Although claims under this plan are self-insured, Sunrise has aggregate protection which caps the potential liability for both individual and total claims during a plan year. Claims are paid as they are submitted to the plan administrator. Sunrise also records a liability for outstanding claims and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. This liability is based on the historical claim reporting lag and payment trends of health insurance claims and is based on the recommendations of an independent actuary. Sunrise believes that the liability for outstanding losses and expenses is adequate to cover the ultimate cost of losses incurred at December 31, 2006, but actual claims may differ. Any subsequent changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they are determined and will be shared with the communities participating in the insurance programs based on their proportionate share of any changes. Continuing Care Agreements Sunrise leases communities under operating leases and owns communities that provide life care services under various types of entrance fee agreements with residents (“Entrance Fee Communities”). Residents of Entrance Fee Communities are required to sign a continuing care agreement with Sunrise. The care agreements stipulate, among other things, the amount of all entrance and monthly fees, the type of residential unit being provided, and Sunrise’s obligation to provide both health care and non-health care services. In addition, the care agreements provide Sunrise with the right to increase future monthly fees. The care agreements are terminated upon the receipt of a written termination notice from the resident or the death of the resident. Entrance fees are refundable to the resident or the resident’s estate depending on the form of the agreement either upon reoccupancy or termination of the care agreement. When the present value of estimated costs to be incurred under care agreements exceeds the present value of estimated revenues, the present value of such excess costs is accrued. The calculation assumes a future increase in the monthly revenue commensurate with the monthly costs. The calculation currently results in an expected negative net present value cash flow and, as such, a liability of $1.3 million has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006. Refundable entrance fees are primarily non-interest bearing and, depending on the type of plan, can range from between 30% to 100% of the total entrance fee less any additional occupant entrance fees. As these obligations are considered security deposits, interest is not imputed on these obligations in accordance with APB 21, Interest on Receivables and Payables. Entrance fees were $38.1 million and $27.0 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. None of these refundable entrance fees are amortized into income. Non-refundable portions of entrance fees are deferred and recognized as revenue using the straight-line method over the actuarially determined expected term of each resident’s contract. 130 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Accounting for Guarantees Guarantees entered into in connection with the sale of real estate often prevent Sunrise from either accounting for the transaction as a sale of an asset or recognizing in earnings the profit from the sale transaction. Guarantees not entered into in connection with the sale of real estate are considered financial instruments. For guarantees considered financial instruments Sunrise recognizes at the inception of a guarantee or the date of modification, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing a guarantee. On a quarterly basis, Sunrise evaluates the estimated liability based on the operating results and the terms of the guarantee. If it is probable that Sunrise will be required to fund additional amounts than previously estimated a loss is recorded. Fundings that are recoverable as a loan from a venture are considered in the determination of the contingent loss recorded. Loan amounts are evaluated for impairment at inception and then quarterly. Asset Retirement Obligations In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, Asset Retirement Obligations (“FIN 47”) Sunrise records a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. Certain of our operating real estate assets contain asbestos. The asbestos is appropriately contained, in accordance with current environmental regulations, and Sunrise has no current plans to remove the asbestos. When, and if, these properties are demolished, certain environmental regulations are in place which specify the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and disposed of. Because the obligation to remove the asbestos has an indeterminable settlement date, Sunrise is not able to reasonably estimate the fair value of this asset retirement obligation. Asbestos has also been found at some of Sunrise’s development sites where old buildings are scheduled to be demolished and replaced with new Sunrise facilities. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005 Sunrise’s estimates for asbestos removal costs for these sites were insignificant. In addition, certain of our long-term ground leases include clauses that may require Sunrise to dispose of the leasehold improvements constructed on the premises at the end of the lease term. These costs, however, are not estimable due to the range of potential settlement dates and variability among properties. Further, the present value of the expected costs are insignificant as the remaining term of each of the leases is fifty years or more. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes. Sunrise records the current year amounts payable or refundable, as well as the consequences of events that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences in how these events are treated for tax purposes. Sunrise bases its estimate of deferred tax assets and liabilities on current tax laws and rates and, in certain cases, business plans and other expectations about future outcomes. Revenue Recognition for Management, Development and Professional Fees “Management fees” is comprised of fees from management contracts for operating communities owned by unconsolidated ventures and other third parties, which consist of base management fees, incentive management fees and consulting fees for operating communities. The management fees are generally between five and eight percent of a managed community’s total operating revenue. Fees are recognized in the month they are earned in accordance with the terms of the management contract. “Buyout fees” is comprised of fees received from Five Star Quality Care related to the buyout of management contracts. 131 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) “Reimbursable contract services” is comprised of reimbursements for expenses incurred by Sunrise on behalf of communities operated by Sunrise under long-term management agreements. Revenue is recognized when Sunrise incurs the related costs. The related costs are included in “Reimbursable contract services” expense. “Professional fees from development, marketing and other” is comprised of fees received for services provided prior to the opening of an unconsolidated community. Sunrise’s development fees related to building design and construction oversight are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method and the portion related to marketing services is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the services are provided. The cost-to-cost method is used to measure the extent of progress toward completion for purposes of calculating the percentage of completion portion of the revenues. Greystone’s development contracts are multiple element arrangements. Since there is not sufficient objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered elements at each billing milestone, Sunrise defers revenue recognition until the completion of the development contract. Deferred development revenue for these contracts were $15.1 million and $13.0 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively and is included in “Deferred gains on the sale of real estate and deferred revenues” in the balance sheet. Sunrise, along with third-party partners, invests in the pre-finance stage of certain Greystone development projects. When the initial development services are successful and permanent financing for the project is obtained, the partners are repaid their initial invested capital plus fees generally between 50% and 75% of their investment. Sunrise consolidated these ventures that are formed to invest in the project as it controls them. No revenue is recognized until the permanent financing is in place. “Resident and ancillary fees” are recognized monthly as services are provided. Agreements with residents are generally for a term of one year and are cancelable by residents with thirty days notice. Stock-Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, Sunrise adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payments (“SFAS 123(R)”), to record compensation expense for its employee stock options, restricted stock awards, and employee stock purchase plan. This statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”) and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB 25”), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), Sunrise followed the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25, in accounting for its stock options and other equity instruments. SFAS 123(R) requires that all share-based payments to employees be recognized in the consolidated statements of income based on their grant date fair values with the expense being recognized over the requisite service period. Sunrise uses the Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value of its awards at the time of grant. Foreign Currency Translation Sunrise’s reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Certain of its subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currency of the respective country. Balance sheets prepared in their functional currencies are translated to the reporting currency at exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period except for stockholders’ equity accounts and intercompany accounts with consolidated subsidiaries that are considered to be of a long-term nature, which are translated at rates in effect when these balances were originally recorded. Revenue and expense accounts are translated at a weighted average of exchange rates during the period. The cumulative effect of the translation is included in “Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income” in the consolidated balance sheets. Advertising Costs Sunrise expenses advertising as incurred. Total advertising costs for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $3.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.6 million, respectively. 132 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) Legal Contingencies Sunrise is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. Sunrise records an accrual for loss contingencies when a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Sunrise reviews these accruals quarterly and makes revisions based on changes in facts and circumstances. Future Adoption of Accounting Standards In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 is an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and it seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of measurement and recognition in accounting for income taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2007, and its provisions are to be applied to all tax positions upon initial adoption. Upon adoption of FIN 48, only tax positions that meet a “more likely than not” threshold at the effective date may be recognized or continue to be recognized. The cumulative effect of applying FIN 48, if any, is to be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. Sunrise is in the process of evaluating the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). This standard defines fair value, establishes a methodology for measuring fair value and expands the required disclosure for fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2009. Provisions of SFAS 157 are required to be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the first fiscal year in which SFAS 157 is applied. Sunrise is evaluating the impact that SFAS 157 will have on its financial statements. In November 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force of FASB (“EITF”) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 06-8, Applicability of the Assessment of a Buyer’s Continuing Investment under FASB Statement No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate, for Sales of Condominiums (“EITF 06-8”). EITF 06-8 requires condominium sales to meet the continuing investment criterion in SFAS No. 66 in order for profit to be recognized under the percentage of completion method. EITF 06-8 is effective for Sunrise at January 1, 2007. Sunrise is currently developing one condominium project for an unconsolidated venture. The venture has not recorded sales to date. The venture will apply EITF 06-8 for all future sales. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. The irrevocable election of the fair value option is made on an instrument by instrument basis, and applied to the entire instrument, and not just a portion of it. The changes in fair value of each item elected to be measured at fair value are recognized in earnings each reporting period. SFAS 159 does not affect any existing pronouncements that require assets and liabilities to be carried at fair value, nor does it eliminate any existing disclosure requirements. This standard is effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2008. Sunrise is evaluating the impact that SFAS 159 will have on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141R”), and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 require most identifiable assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in business combinations to be recorded at “full fair value” and require noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) to be reported as a component of equity. The standards are effective for Sunrise as of January 1, 2009, and earlier adoption is prohibited. 133 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 4. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowance for doubtful accounts consists of the following (in thousands): Accounts Receivable Other Assets Total Balance January 1, 2004 $ 3,679 — $ 3,679 Provision for doubtful accounts 2,325 — 2,325 Write-offs (4,116 ) — (4,116 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 1,888 — 1,888 Provision for doubtful accounts 1,675 — 1,675 Write-offs (1,065 ) — (1,065 ) Balance, December 31, 2005 2,498 — 2,498 Provision for doubtful accounts 6,632 $ 8,000 14,632 Write-offs (1,626 ) — (1,626 ) Balance, December 31, 2006 $ 7,504 $ 8,000 $ 15,504 Allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts receivable relates primarily to resident and Trinity receivables. Allowance for doubtful accounts for other assets of $8.0 million is related to a receivable resulting from prior fundings under a guarantee which was previously determined to be collectible. 5. Property and Equipment Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands): December 31, 2005 Asset Lives 2006 Restated Land and land improvements 15 years $ 76,456 $ 63,253 Building and building improvements 40 years 330,431 290,216 Furniture and equipment 3-10 years 122,479 93,997 529,366 447,466 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (125,315 ) (98,914 ) 404,051 348,552 Construction in progress 205,334 145,517 Property and equipment, net $ 609,385 $ 494,069 Depreciation expense for property and equipment was $27.1 million, $20.4 million, and $17.2 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, excluding depreciation expense related to properties subject to the deposit method, financing method and profit-sharing method of accounting. See Note 7. During 2006 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $15.7 million related to seven small senior living communities which were acquired between 1996 and 1999. 6. Acquisitions Raiser Portfolio In August 2006, Sunrise acquired the long term management contracts of two San Francisco Bay Area continuing retirement communities (“CCRCs”) and the ownership of one community from Raiser Resources, LLC 134 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) and Raiser Senior Services, LLC. The two managed communities are condominiums owned by the residents. The three communities have a combined capacity of more than 200 residents. The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired, including intangible assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values. The purchase price values were assigned as follows (in millions): Net working capital $ 0.9 Property and equipment 17.0 Management contracts 21.0 Entrance fee liability and future service obligations (11.5 ) Total purchase price (including transaction costs) $ 27.4 The weighted-average amortization period for the management contracts is 30 years. Raiser does not meet the definition of a significant subsidiary and therefore historical and pro forma information is not disclosed. Trinity Hospice, Inc. In September 2006, Sunrise acquired Trinity Hospice, Inc. (“Trinity”) a large provider of hospice services in the United States. Trinity currently operates 20 hospice programs across the United States. The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired, including intangible assets consisting primarily of trade-name, referral network and non-compete agreements, and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values. The purchase price values were assigned as follows (in millions): Net working capital $ 3.7 Property and equipment 1.5 Intangible assets 9.7 Goodwill 59.3 Other assets 0.4 Total purchase price (including transaction costs) $ 74.6 The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is five years. Trinity does not meet the definition of a significant subsidiary and therefore historical and pro forma information is not disclosed. Greystone Communities, Inc. In May 2005, Sunrise acquired Greystone Communities, Inc. (“Greystone”), a developer and manager of CCRCs. Through the acquisition of Greystone, Sunrise expanded into the not-for-profit sector, which is the largest ownership segment of the CCRC industry. The acquisition of Greystone included management of 14 operating CCRCs, development services agreements for an additional 34 communities that Greystone had under development for not-for-profit owners, as well as various other consulting and marketing agreements. Sunrise also agreed to pay an additional $7.5 million if Greystone met certain performance milestones in 2005, 2006, and 2007 for a total potential acquisition cost of $54.0 million, subject to various adjustments as set forth in the acquisition agreement. Of these amounts, $5.0 million has already been paid and is reflected in the table below. The remaining performance milestones are expected to be met in 2007 and $2.5 million is expected to be paid in 2008. 135 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired, including intangible assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values. The purchase price values were assigned as follows (in millions): Net working capital deficit $ (1.8 ) Property and equipment 0.6 Management and development contracts 13.8 Goodwill 36.4 Total purchase price (including transaction costs) $ 49.0 The portion of the purchase price allocated to management and development contracts is being amortized over the specific term of each individual management and development contract acquired which ranges from one to 14 years. The weighted average amortization period is six years. Greystone does not meet the definition of a significant subsidiary and therefore historical and pro forma information is not disclosed. The Fountains In July 2005, Sunrise contributed approximately $25.8 million in cash in exchange for a 20% interest in an unconsolidated venture formed to purchase assets from The Fountains, an Arizona based owner and operator of senior living communities. Sunrise’s venture partner contributed approximately $109.0 million in cash in exchange for an 80% interest in the venture. Concurrent with its funding, the venture paid approximately $448.9 million in cash to acquire 16 senior living communities owned or controlled by The Fountains. The purchase price included transaction costs of $7.6 million, plus the assumption of approximately $69.6 million in refundable entrance fees. Approximately $331.0 million of the purchase price was obtained from the proceeds of non-recourse secured debt financing obtained by the venture (“The Fountains Loan”). Sunrise provided a liquidity support agreement for the scheduled debt service payments on The Fountains Loan and also entered into certain credit support arrangements with the venture (described below). Sunrise also agreed to pay the venture $12 million over 15 months for the right to enter into long-term management contracts with each of the 16 communities acquired by the venture. The transactions surrounding the entire portfolio provide Sunrise management more than 4,000 additional units in 11 states. In conjunction with this transaction, Sunrise guaranteed to fund shortfalls between actual net operating income and a specified level of net operating income to the venture and to fund the monthly payment of principal and interest on The Fountains Loan to the lender up to $7 million per year through July 2010. The $12 million paid by Sunrise to the venture to enter into the management agreements was recorded as an intangible asset and is being amortized over the 25 year life of the management agreements. The $12 million was placed into a reserve account, and the first $12 million of shortfalls were to be funded from this reserve account. In late 2006, Sunrise determined that shortfalls will exceed the amount held in the reserve account. As a result, Sunrise recorded a pre-tax charge of $22.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Sunrise is continuing to receive management fees with respect to these communities. Sunrise also acquired directly from The Fountains full ownership of one community, several undeveloped land parcels and certain other assets (including a community located in New Jersey subject to an underlying ground lease) for approximately $29.0 million in cash, including transaction costs of $1.6 million. The purchase price and the amount paid for the right to enter into long-term management agreements was allocated to the assets acquired, 136 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) including intangible assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values. The purchase price values assigned were as follows (in millions): Net working capital deficit $ (0.5 ) Property and equipment, net 21.4 Management contracts 7.8 Other assets 0.3 Total purchase price (including transaction costs) $ 29.0 The weighted-average amortization period for the management contracts is 23 years. The Fountains does not meet the definition of a significant subsidiary and therefore historical and pro forma information is not disclosed. 7. Sales of Real Estate Total gains (losses) on sale recognized are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Properties accounted for under basis of performance of services $ 1.8 $ 0.6 $ 0.