ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the following information: Industry Factors Starting in 2008, U.S. and global economies experienced a serious recession, unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, and significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S. and global consumer and business economies and a slow economic recovery, all of which continue to present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation; the U.S. Government responded to these circumstances in the U.S. with a variety of measures; there can be no assurance that these measures ultimately will successfully address these circumstances; the U.S. Government continues to face significant fiscal and budgetary challenges which, if not resolved, may further exacerbate U.S. economic conditions. Since 2008, adverse financial and economic developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and have presented challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation. These developments included a general recession both globally and in the U.S. followed by a slow economic recovery and have contributed to substantial volatility in the financial markets. In response, various significant economic and monetary stimulus measures were enacted by the U.S. Congress and the Federal Reserve Board has pursued a highly accommodative monetary policy aimed at keeping interest rates at historically low levels. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain of these measures. It cannot be predicted whether U.S. Governmental actions will result in lasting improvement in financial and economic conditions affecting the U.S. banking industry and the U.S. economy. It also cannot be predicted whether and to what extent the efforts of the U.S. Government to combat the mixed economic conditions will continue. If, notwithstanding the government’s fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to deteriorate, or its recovery were too slow, this would present significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for our Company. In addition, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, we have not been eligible to participate in some federal programs such as the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program and may not qualify for participation in future federal programs. 17 Table of Contents Since 2010, certain European sovereign borrowers have encountered difficulties in financing renewals of their indebtedness and continue to face serious economic and financial challenges. If this trend continues or worsens, including spreading to other countries in the Eurozone, it could have adverse impacts on costs in the global debt markets that could increase funding costs for banks generally and could generate further adverse financial and economic conditions for global and U.S. markets. Continued concerns regarding significant economic weaknesses in the European Union and, in particular, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, continue to erode confidence in European financial markets and the ability of the Euro to continue as a currency. During 2011 and continuing through 2012, leaders of the major countries in the European Union have been pursuing a variety of measures to address the Eurozone debt crisis including support plans for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. There can be no assurance that measures that have been or may be taken to address the Eurozone debt crisis will resolve the challenging economic and financial situation of these countries or prevent the spread of such difficulties or their having an adverse impact on the global and U.S. economies, with possible consequent adverse effects on the U.S. banking industry and our business and prospects. The challenges to the level of economic activity in the U.S., and therefore to the banking industry, have also been exacerbated by the extensive political disagreements regarding the statutory debt limit on U.S. federal government obligations and measures to address the substantial federal deficits. Following enactment of federal legislation in August 2011 which averted a default by the U.S. federal government on its sovereign obligations by raising the statutory debt limit and which established a process whereby cuts in federal spending may be accomplished, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (Standard & Poor’s) lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. to “AA+” from “AAA” while affirming its highest rating on short-term U.S. obligations. Standard & Poor’s also stated that its outlook on the long-term rating remained negative. At the present time, the other two major U.S. credit rating agencies have not lowered their credit rating on the U.S.; however, both of them have stated that their outlook on the U.S. is negative. Although it is not possible to predict the long-term impact of these developments on the U.S. economy in general and the banking industry in particular, the downgrade by Standard & Poor’s and any further downgrades by it or other rating agencies could increase over time the U.S. federal government’s cost of borrowing which may worsen its fiscal challenges, as well as generating upward pressure on interest rates generally in the U.S. which could, in turn, have adverse consequences for borrowers and the level of business activity. In January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law. The Act raised federal personal income and other tax rates and temporarily averted the effect of the 2011 federal legislation which would have mandated federal spending cuts of $1.2 trillion over nine years and more substantial increases in federal personal income and other tax rates, commonly referred to as the “fiscal cliff” due to its anticipated recessionary effects. It is presently expected that there will be continuing negotiations between the Administration and Congressional Republicans over, the mandated federal spending cuts and federal spending levels in general, including entitlements and defense, as well as tax policy and the levels of the federal budget deficits and the debt ceiling. The outcome of these developments cannot be predicted with any certainty, but could have further adverse consequences for the credit ratings of U.S. debt and also present additional challenges for the U.S. economy and for the U.S. banking industry in general and for our business prospects as well. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the U.S. banking industry Dramatic declines in the housing market in the U.S. in general, and in California in particular, during 2008 and continuing through 2011, with falling or sluggish home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, residential and commercial real estate loans and small business and other commercial loans, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. These adverse economic conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and 18 Table of Contents consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in 2009 and this effect continued, although to a lesser degree, in 2010. Although the economic conditions in our markets and in the U.S. generally have shown some improvement during 2012, there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve. These conditions may again decline in the near future. In addition, turbulent political and economic conditions in foreign countries have negatively impacted the U.S. financial markets and economy in general and may do so in the future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties may be impaired if the applications and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers and counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors. • We may not be able to accurately estimate credit exposure losses because the process we use to estimate these losses requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments with respect to predictions which may not be amenable to precise estimates, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • Further downgrades in the credit ratings of major U.S. or foreign banks, or other financial difficulties affecting such major banks, could have adverse consequences for the financial markets generally, including possible negative effects on the available sources of market liquidity and increased pricing pressures in such markets, which, in turn, could make it more difficult or expensive for banks generally and for us to access such markets to satisfy liquidity needs. • Significant fluctuations in the prices of equity and fixed income securities could adversely impact the revenues of our asset management and trust business. Fees charged are based upon values of assets we manage and declines in values proportionately reduce fees charged. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions and the enhanced ability of banks to expand across state lines under the Dodd-Frank Act (see “Substantial competition could adversely affect us”). • We may incur goodwill impairment losses in future periods. See “Critical Accounting Estimates—Annual Goodwill Impairment Analysis” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. • We have been subject to increased FDIC deposit premiums relative to pre-2008 levels (although our assessment decreased in 2011 compared to 2010) and may in future years be subject to further premium increases which could increase our costs. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding FDIC actions relating to deposit insurance assessments. The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state banking regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these 19 Table of Contents regulations. This will continue and likely intensify in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of and intensify their examination of compliance with these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance, which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional supervision, fees, taxes or restrictions on our operations. Compliance with laws and regulations, especially new laws and regulations, increases our operating expenses and may divert management attention from our business operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This important legislation has affected U.S. financial institutions, including UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank, in many ways, some of which have increased, or may increase in the future, the cost of doing business and present other challenges to the financial services industry. Due to our size of over $50 billion in assets, we are regarded as “systemically significant” to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, are subject to additional regulations as discussed further below. Many of the law’s provisions are in the process of being implemented by rules and regulations of the federal banking agencies, the scope and impact of which cannot yet be fully determined. The law contains many provisions that may have particular relevance to the business of UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the creation of the CFPB, which has direct supervision and examination authority over banks with more than $10 billion in assets, including Union Bank. While the full effect of these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act on Union Bank cannot be predicted at this time, they have resulted in adjustments to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums, and may result in increased capital and liquidity requirements, increased supervision, increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs and other operational costs and expenses, reduced fee-based revenues and restrictions on some aspects of our operations, and increased interest expense on our demand deposits, some or all of which may be material. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on our Global Capital Markets activities due to enhanced oversight of derivatives and swap activities by multiple regulatory agencies (CFTC, the SEC and bank regulators) and the potential need to “push out” of Union Bank certain non-conforming swap activity to a nonbank affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule will require reporting of quantitative measures and the establishment of a compliance regime covering capital markets and principal risk-taking activities. The Federal Reserve Board has confirmed that financial institutions will have until July 21, 2014 to conform to the restrictions on proprietary trading activities and on hedge fund and private equity fund activities and investments set forth in the Volcker Rule. See “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information. Proposals to reform the housing finance market in the U.S. could also significantly affect our business. These proposals, among other things, consider winding down the government sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (GSEs) and reducing or eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. While the specific nature of these reforms and their impact on the financial services industry in general, and on Union Bank in particular, is uncertain at this time, such reforms, if enacted, are likely to have a substantial impact on the mortgage market and could potentially reduce our income from mortgage originations by increasing mortgage costs or lowering originations. The GSE reforms could also reduce real estate prices, which could reduce the value of collateral securing outstanding mortgage loans. This reduction of collateral value could negatively impact the value or perceived collectability of these mortgage loans and may increase our allowance for loan losses. Such reforms may also include changes to the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which could adversely affect a significant source of term funding for lending activities by the banking industry, including Union Bank. These reforms may also result in higher interest rates on 20 Table of Contents residential mortgage loans, thereby reducing demand, which could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business. President Obama’s proposed 2013 U.S. budget included a “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee” that would apply to banks with greater than $50 billion in assets. This fee would be intended to recover taxpayer funds provided to U.S. financial institutions through the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). On February 1, 2012, the Obama administration proposed to use a portion of the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee to provide certain eligible homeowners who are current on their mortgage payments with an opportunity to refinance. On May 21, 2012, the U.S. Treasury announced its final rule to establish an assessment fee on institutions with greater than $50 billion in assets to fund the Office of Financial Research. Although we did not receive, and were not eligible to receive, direct TARP investment from the U.S. Treasury, as we have greater than $50 billion in assets, under the final rule we are subject to this fee. Therefore, our costs have and will continue to increase due to these assessments, which are based, among other things, on the operating expenses of this new office and the aggregate assessable assets of the subject banks. Recently, several cities in the United States (including, Los Angeles and San Diego) have adopted so-called “responsible banking acts”, and other cities are considering the adoption of similar ordinances. These city ordinances generally require banks that hold city government deposits to provide detailed accounts of their lending practices in low-income communities, as well as their participation in foreclosure prevention and home loan principal reduction programs. Performance under these ordinances is used as a basis for awarding the city’s financial services contracts. The adoption of these ordinances by municipalities for which Union Bank is a provider of cash management or other banking services could result in increased regulatory and compliance costs and other operational costs and expenses, making this business less desirable to the Bank and potentially resulting in reduced opportunities for the Bank to provide these services. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to our ownership by BTMU, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. In addition to changes in required capital resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, the Basel Committee published in December 2010 guidelines for the Basel III global regulatory framework for capital and liquidity, including calibration for increased capital requirements approved by the G20 leadership in November 2010. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve Board and the other federal banking agencies issued notices of proposed rule-making to implement the Basel III global regulatory framework. This proposal is generally consistent with Basel III and also would implement aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act. It would require bank holding companies to maintain more and better sources of capital, as well as significantly revise the calculations for risk-weighted assets. However, on November 9, 2012, the Federal banking agencies, in response to comments on this proposal, announced that they were deferring the effectiveness of this proposal, and a revised timeline for when the rules will go into effect has not been released. For additional information, see “Supervision and Regulation—Basel Committee Capital Standards and U.S. Regulatory Response” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. In addition, on December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board announced a proposed rule to implement the enhanced prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act for larger bank holding companies. The proposed enhanced prudential standards, which will apply to us, include increased capital, liquidity and leverage standards as well as enhanced risk management and governance. New liquidity standards are expected to be adopted by U.S. bank regulatory agencies with some modifications. These new liquidity standards could require that we raise and maintain additional liquidity. While the ultimate implementation of these proposals in the U.S. is subject to the discretion of the U.S. bank regulators, these proposals, if adopted, could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital and liquidity, and may lead us to stop or reduce our offerings of certain types of credit products. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents In addition, the enhanced prudential standards and early remediation rules proposed by the Federal Reserve Board in December 2012 for FBOs may result in increased capital, liquidity and other financial and compliance costs for UnionBanCal and for MUFG’s and BTMU’s other operations in the U.S. The proposed IHC requirements may result in MUFG’s and BTMU’s U.S. operations being restructured as interests held under a single U.S. IHC, although as the rules are proposed, BTMU’s U.S. branches could be maintained separately. MUFG and BTMU are analyzing the potential impact of the FBO proposed rules on their U.S. operations (including UnionBanCal) and will make appropriate structural, operational and financial changes to comply with the FBO rules. Until the FBO rules are finalized, the significance of their impact on UnionBanCal, and MUFG’s and BTMU’s operations in the U.S. generally, cannot be determined. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and a long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. Government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with the recent negotiations between the Obama Administration and Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the Federal budget, possible proposals have reportedly been discussed which could lead to new restrictions on the deductibility of interest on home mortgage loans for Federal income tax purposes. If any such new restrictions are eventually imposed, they could have an adverse impact on housing values in the U.S., including in California, where residential real estate prices have tended to be generally higher than in many other areas of the country. This, in turn, could adversely affect the value of the collateral for our residential mortgage loan portfolio, as well as impact the flow of new residential real estate financings, both of which could adversely affect our residential mortgage lending business. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain existing and proposed laws and regulations that may affect our business. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact of current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. 22 Table of Contents We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowances because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers’ ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowance. Continued volatility in commodity-related costs could also adversely impact some borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowances because of unexpected events. Any increase in our credit allowances would result in a charge to earnings. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers and decrease our revenue from other customers Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences. In response to the financial crisis, in 2009, legislation was proposed to allow mortgage loan “cram-downs,” which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans including the ability to reduce the principal amounts to reflect lower underlying property values. Although this legislation has not moved forward at this time, legislation of this type could result in our writing down the value of our residential mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their lower loan values. There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults. Changes in federal rules have imposed new restrictions on banks’ abilities to charge overdraft services and interchange fees on debit card transactions. Under the final rule, effective October 1, 2011, the maximum permissible interchange fee that a bank may receive is the sum of $0.21 per transaction and five basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, with an additional upward adjustment of no more than $0.01 per transaction if a bank develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve fraud-prevention standards set by regulation. These restrictions are resulting in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the banking industry and Union Bank, and there can be no assurance that alternative sources of revenues can be implemented to offset the impact of this development. See “Supervision and Regulation—Overdraft and Interchange Fees; Interest on Demand Deposits” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information. In April 2011, new federal rules went into effect regulating residential mortgage broker compensation. Generally, such compensation must now be based solely on the loan amount and not on any loan terms. In addition, mortgage brokers must offer the borrower the lowest possible interest rate and fees for which they qualify and may not collect fees from both the bank and the borrower. Although these amendments do not apply to banks directly, they regulate the compensation that banks may pay to mortgage brokers and the types of transactions they may refer to banks. In addition, in April 2011, the Federal Reserve Board proposed further rules to prohibit banks from making a residential mortgage loan without regard to a borrower’s repayment ability. The Dodd-Frank Act transferred general rule-making authority in this subject matter area to the new CFPB which re-opened the comment period on this proposed rule to July 2012. In January 2013, the CFPB issued an Ability-to-Repay rule that all newly originated residential mortgages must meet, effective January 2014. The Ability-to-Repay rule establishes guidelines that the lender must follow when reviewing a borrower’s credit and prohibits some mortgage features. Lenders will be presumed to have met the Ability-to-Repay rule by issuing Qualified Mortgages, a more stringent standard. The majority of the residential mortgages that Union Bank currently originates do not meet the Qualified Mortgage criteria but are believed to satisfy the Ability-to-Repay rule. The Ability-to-Repay rule could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business as the primary and secondary markets adapt. In addition, the CFPB is considering a number of amendments to the Ability-to-Repay rule which could also have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business. 23 Table of Contents The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs and assumptions to estimate fair value. Because generally accepted accounting principles require fair value measurements to reflect appropriate adjustments for risks related to liquidity and the use of unobservable assumptions, we may recognize unrealized losses even if we believe that the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. During periods of adverse conditions in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments with respect to securities in our investment portfolio. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact, and has in past years impacted, our net interest margin (that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings). This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. Changes in interest rates can also affect the level of loan refinancing activity, which impacts the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on loans we hold. Recently, the banking industry has operated in an extremely low interest rate environment relative to historical averages and the Federal Reserve Board’s current highly accommodative monetary policies are expected (subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s evaluation of conditions in the U.S. financial markets) to encourage the continuation of persistently low short-term and long-term interest rates at least through mid-2015, or until substantial improvement in the job market occurs, which we expect will continue to place downward pressure on our net interest margin. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, which may increase our funding costs and adversely affect our liquidity position Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments either with us or with external providers. In addition, our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not fully insured by the FDIC. Depositors may withdraw certain deposits from Union Bank and place them in other institutions or invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates or reduce fees to retain certain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. In addition, we have benefited from a “flight to quality” by consumers and businesses seeking the relative safety of bank deposits over the past few years. As interest rates rise from historically low levels 24 Table of Contents during the current period, our newly acquired deposits may not be as stable or as interest rate insensitive as similar deposits may have been in the past, and as the recovery in the U.S. economy continues, some existing or prospective deposit customers of banks generally, including Union Bank, may be inclined to pursue other investment alternatives. The unlimited FDIC guarantee of demand deposit accounts at U.S. commercial banks under the Dodd-Frank Act expired at the end of 2012 without extension by Congress. As a result, there may be deposit outflows from some banks and deposits of public agencies which were previously insured may need to be fully collateralized. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, as of July 2011, financial institutions have been allowed to offer interest on demand deposits, including business demand deposits, to compete for clients. While the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, subject to its continuing evaluation of conditions in the U.S. financial markets, it will likely seek to maintain low short-term interest rates though at least mid-2015, or until substantial improvement in the job market occurs, we do not know what interest rates other institutions may offer in the future when the Federal Reserve Board rates change. Our interest expense may increase and our net interest margin may decrease if we offer interest on business demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon, Washington, Texas, Illinois and New York, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banks and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Some of our competitors are insurance companies or community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, which are well in excess of ours. Competition in our industry may further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, particularly in our principal markets resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources if they develop credit needs larger than we may be able to accommodate. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our activities and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and payment systems. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions and other financial companies, which do not always have a physical presence in our market footprint and have grown rapidly in recent years. Competition in our principal markets may further intensify as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, permits out of state de novo branching by national banks, state banks and foreign banks from other states. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds 25 Table of Contents over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits and other financial transactions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements or new interpretations of existing standards emerge as standard industry practice. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. The continuing war on terrorism, overseas military conflicts and unrest in other countries could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities, as well as political unrest in various regions, including the Middle East, may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and increases in energy costs and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. In addition, continuing global tensions may result in new and enhanced U.S. economic sanctions against other governments or entities which may increase our compliance costs under the regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control and other federal agencies. Company Factors Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, and could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a continued or further downturn in the residential real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolios in various ways, including by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. The temporary upper limit of $729,750 for a residential mortgage loan that may be purchased by the government sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac expired on September 30, 2011, and the high balance loan limit was reduced to $625,500. This limit applied to high cost areas where the median home price exceeded the conforming loan limit, including many areas within our markets. This reduction could result in higher mortgage rates for borrowers purchasing homes that exceed the new limit, which, in turn, could reduce the pool of eligible buyers for high value homes, reduce mortgage originations and negatively impact the collateral value of homes in high cost areas. Any of these results could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business. The mortgage industry is in the midst of unprecedented change triggered by the significant economic downturn which commenced in 2008. Lawmakers and regulators are being urged to establish national servicing standards to protect borrowers and establish a common framework for response to the concerns of residential mortgage customers, especially related to default and foreclosure. The $25 billion legal settlement announced on February 9, 2012, between the Attorneys General of 49 states and the 5 largest 26 Table of Contents U.S. residential mortgage loan servicers requires servicers to adhere to new servicing standards. The settlement package, which includes amounts for principal reductions and direct pay-outs for consumers who lost their homes to foreclosure during the reviewed time period, a refinancing program for underwater borrowers and foreclosure-related initiatives, as well as a new code of conduct for mortgage servicers, could result in a number of business practice modifications that could significantly increase the costs of residential mortgage loan servicing. In July 2012, California’s “Homeowner Bill of Rights,” which incorporates many requirements of the settlement package, was signed into law. The legislation imposes strict rules on mortgage servicers and subjects mortgage services to new potential liabilities. In addition, the OCC issued supervisory guidance to national banks, such as Union Bank, on the subject of national mortgage servicing standards in June 2011. This guidance was in response to an earlier review of foreclosure processing at 14 of the largest federally regulated mortgage servicers, which was conducted by an inter-agency team, made up of state attorneys general, the Federal Reserve, OCC, OTS, FDIC and others. This review found critical weaknesses in servicers’ foreclosure governance and documentation processes, and oversight and monitoring of third party vendors, and established new foreclosure management standards, including a new requirement for a Single Point of Contact for consumers in a loss mitigation or foreclosure process. This OCC guidance, the 2012 settlement, any additional mortgage-related litigation and any further increased standards and restrictions are expected to impact the overall mortgage loan servicing industry in general, increase the cost of residential mortgage lending, require mortgage loan principal write-downs, and could put downward pressure on property values and have other adverse impacts on our residential lending business. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors and are impacting the performance of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial portfolios. The commercial real estate industry in the U.S., and in California in particular, has been adversely impacted by the recessionary environment and lack of liquidity in the financial markets. The home building and mortgage industry in California has been especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets. Poor economic conditions and financial access for commercial real estate developers and homebuilders could adversely affect property values, resulting in higher nonperforming assets and charge-offs in this sector. Our commercial and industrial portfolio, and the communications and media industry, the retail industry, and the energy industry in particular, have also been impacted by recessionary market conditions. Continued volatility in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries, while a prolonged slump in natural gas and coal prices could have adverse consequences for some of our borrowers in the energy sector. Conditions remain uncertain and could produce elevated levels of charge-offs. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge-offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business For the last several years, economic conditions in California have been subject to various challenges, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector and the California state government’s budgetary and fiscal difficulties. California continues to have a high unemployment rate. Also, California markets have experienced some of the worst property value declines in the U.S. In addition, for the past several years, the State government of California has experienced budget shortfalls or deficits that have led to protracted negotiations between the Governor and the State Legislature over how to address the budget gap. The California electorate approved, in the November 2012 general elections, certain increases in the rate of income taxation in California, and also elected Democratic super-majorities in both Houses of the California legislature, thus potentially facilitating further increases in California tax rates. As a consequence, California’s 2013-14 budget proposal does not reflect a deficit; however, there can be no assurance that the state’s fiscal and budgetary challenges will be readily resolved. In addition, the impact of increased rates of income taxation on the level of economic activity in California cannot be predicted at this time. Also, municipalities and other governmental units within California have been experiencing budgetary difficulties, and several California municipalities have filed for 27 Table of Contents protection under the Bankruptcy Code. As a result, concerns also have arisen regarding the outlook for the State of California’s governmental obligations, as well as those of California municipalities and other governmental units. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and interest and fee income is generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. If the budgetary and fiscal difficulties of the California State government and California municipalities and other governmental units continue or economic conditions in California decline further, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Since November 2008, BTMU, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MUFG, has owned all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BTMU can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to BTMU or MUFG. A majority of our directors are independent of BTMU and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including BTMU. However, because of BTMU’s control over the election of our directors, it could at any time change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s credit ratings and financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations Adverse changes to our credit ratings, reputation or creditworthiness could have a negative effect on our operations. We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, if BTMU and MUFG’s credit ratings or financial condition or prospects were to decline, this could adversely affect our credit rating or harm our reputation or perceived creditworthiness. On April 26, 2011, Standard and Poor’s, while affirming its long-term sovereign credit rating on Japanese government debt, changed its outlook to negative from stable citing concerns about anticipated increases in Japanese government debt due to reconstruction costs in the aftermath of the large earthquake and tsunami and lack of plans to deal with such increases. In August 2011, Moody’s downgraded Japan’s credit rating one step to “Aa3”, in line with Standard & Poor’s rating, and announced related ratings downgrades for most major Japanese banks, including BTMU. In May 2012, rating agency Fitch downgraded Japan’s Sovereign credit rating from “AA” to “A+”. In July 2012, the Fitch rating agency downgraded the long-term credit ratings of the three largest banks in Japan, including MUFG, from “A” to “A-” reflecting concerns regarding the Japanese government’s financial ability to support the banking system. At this time, we cannot predict further actions, if any, which the rating agencies may take regarding the Government of Japan, MUFG or BTMU, nor the ultimate effect of these developments on our credit rating. BTMU and MUFG are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against BTMU or MUFG. 28 Table of Contents BTMU has received requests and subpoenas for information from government agencies in some jurisdictions, including the United States and Europe, which are conducting investigations into past submissions made by panel members, including BTMU, to the bodies that set various interbank offered rates. BTMU is cooperating with these investigations and has been conducting an internal investigation. Union Bank is not a member of any of these panels. In addition, BTMU and other panel members have been named as defendants in a number of civil lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the United States relating to similar matters. It is currently not possible for us to predict the scope and ultimate outcome of these investigations or lawsuits, including any possible effect on us as a member of MUFG. Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of BTMU and MUFG regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may prevent, delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of BTMU’s risk management processes, BTMU manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of BTMU. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as BTMU. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including BTMU’s aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors’ and officers’ ownership interests in MUFG’s common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and BTMU could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and BTMU compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us We have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to expand our business by acquiring other businesses which we believe will enhance our business. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to: the total cost of integration; the retention of key personnel; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; continued growth; or the overall performance of the acquired company or combined entity. We also may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals and unexpected contingent liabilities can arise from the businesses we acquire. Acquisitions may also lead us to enter geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a business or assets we may acquire may deteriorate after an acquisition agreement is signed or after an acquisition closes, which could result in impairment or other expenses and charges which would reduce our operating results. Our purchase and assumption and loss share agreements with the FDIC relating to our Frontier Bank and Tamalpais Bank transactions in 2010 have specific compliance, servicing, notification and reporting 29 Table of Contents requirements. Any failure to comply with the requirements of the loss share agreements, or to properly service the loans and other real estate owned covered by any loss share arrangement, may cause individual loans or loan pools to lose their eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC, potentially resulting in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly. If we are not able to integrate successfully past or future acquisitions, there is a risk that results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell or restructure a business. Any divestitures or restructurings may result in significant expenses and write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and may involve additional risks, including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divestiture or restructuring we might make. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion, see “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and although we monitor their performance, we do not control their actions. Among other services provided by these vendors, third-party vendors have played and will continue to play a key role in the implementation of our technology enhancement projects. The federal banking agencies have issued enhanced guidance and are examining with increasing scrutiny financial institutions’ diligence conducted on and oversight of their third-party vendors. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly or failing to meet legal and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, or implement our technology enhancement projects and otherwise to conduct our business and also could result in disputes with such vendors over their performance of their services to us, as well as adverse regulatory consequences for us. Replacing these third-party vendors on economically feasible terms may not always be possible or within our control and could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, retain and successfully integrate skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. In the past few years, we have experienced significant turnover among members of management, primarily due to retirement. We must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we bring into the organization in order to achieve our operating objectives as new management becomes familiar with our business. 30 Table of Contents The federal banking regulators, including the OCC, have issued guidance and proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act which are intended to prohibit incentive compensation arrangements at insured depository institutions that would encourage inappropriate risk taking, are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. In certain circumstances, a portion of incentive-based compensation awarded to executive officers of large financial institutions, including Union Bank, would be deferred to future periods. In addition, the FDIC has proposed rules which would increase deposit premiums for institutions with compensation practices deemed to increase risk to the institution. Over time, this guidance and the proposed rules, upon their adoption, could have the effect of making it more difficult for banks to attract and retain skilled personnel. The challenging operating environment and current operational initiatives may strain our available resources There are an increasing number of matters in addition to our core operations which require our attention and resources. These matters include implementation of our technology enhancement projects, meeting the needs of our customers through the use of technology to provide improved products and services that will satisfy customer demands, and which will meet our competitors’ similar initiatives, adoption of the Basel II and III and other enhanced capital and liquidity guidelines, various strategic initiatives, an uncertain economic environment, a challenging regulatory environment, including the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted thereunder, and integration of new employees, including key members of management. Our ability to execute our core operations and to implement other important initiatives may be adversely affected if our resources are insufficient or if we are unable to allocate available resources effectively. Also, our ability to constrain or reduce operating expense levels may be limited by the costs of increasing regulatory requirements and expectations. Significant legal or regulatory proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations including claims by customers and our employees and our contractual counterparties. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that have been or might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results Under a tax election we have made, we are required to file our California franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes MUFG’s U.S. operations, including its U.S. branch activities and its U.S. affiliates. Increases or decreases in the taxable profits of MUFG’s U.S. operations could increase or decrease our effective tax rate. We review MUFG’s financial information on a quarterly basis to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to MUFG’s March 31 fiscal year-end. Our California effective tax rate can change during the calendar year, or between calendar years, as additional information becomes available. We could be subject to penalties if we understate our tax obligations. Our effective tax rates also could be affected by valuation changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the tax authorities. 31 Table of Contents Our credit ratings are important in order to maintain liquidity Major credit rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of UnionBanCal Corporation and the securities and deposits of Union Bank. Their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities, and also of our short-term obligations, are based on a number of factors including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current long-term and short-term ratings. In 2011, Moody’s Investors Service, Standard and Poor’s and Fitch, Inc. announced ratings downgrades for a number of large U.S. banks, in part because the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act makes it less likely that the government will step in to rescue a troubled bank. It is unclear whether perceived reduction in systemic support could lead or contribute to negative downward pressure on our credit ratings. In June 2012, Moody’s Investors Services announced further ratings downgrades for a number of major U.S. and foreign bank holding companies (not including us or our parent). If our long-term or short-term credit ratings suffer downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of commercial depositors, investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our ability to generate income. Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain a specified credit rating. If our credit rating were to fall below the specified rating, the counterparties to these derivative instruments could terminate the contract and demand immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization for those derivative instruments in net liability positions. Adverse changes in the credit ratings, operations or prospects of our parent companies, BTMU and MUFG, could also adversely impact our credit ratings. For additional information, refer to the discussion appearing above under the caption “The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s credit ratings and financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations.” We are subject to operational risks, including cybersecurity risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures, cybersecurity risks or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Segments.” Operational risk includes execution risk related to operational initiatives, including implementation of our technology enhancement projects, increased reliance on internally developed models for risk and finance management, reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems, and operational risks related to use of third party service providers. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption “The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us.” Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, transmission and reporting of personal, confidential and other sensitive information or data in our computer systems, networks and business applications. Although we take protective measures, our computer systems may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have significant negative consequences to us. Such events could result in interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers’ operations, interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information and data, or processing of unauthorized transactions or loss of funds. These events could result in litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by our insurance, regulatory consequences or reputational harm, any of which could harm our competitive position, operating 32 Table of Contents results and financial condition. These types of incidents can remain undetected for extended periods of time, thereby increasing the associated risks. We may also be required to expend significant resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or exposures arising from cybersecurity risks. We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect or data which is not reliable. With regard to the physical infrastructure that supports our operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any disruption to that infrastructure. Failures in our internal control or operational systems, security breaches or service interruptions could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from other events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical, internet or telecommunications outages or unexpected difficulties with the implementation of our technology enhancement projects, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. During 2012, it has been reported that several of the larger U.S. banking institutions have been the target of cyber-attacks that have, for limited periods, resulted in the disruption of various operations of the targeted banks. While we have a variety of cyber-security measures in place, the consequences to our business, if we were to become a target of such attacks, cannot be predicted with any certainty. In addition, there have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions, including through the use of social engineering schemes such as “phishing.” The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and though mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches which would expose us to financial claims by customers or others and which could adversely affect our reputation. Even if cyber-attacks and similar tactics are not directed specifically at Union Bank, such attacks on other large financial institutions could disrupt the overall functioning of the financial system and undermine consumer confidence in banks generally, to the detriment of other financial institutions, including Union Bank. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our business and revenues are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. Most recently, negative public opinion concerning the financial services industry has been evidenced by the Occupy Wall Street demonstration that has spawned similar protests in major cities and communities throughout the U.S. and worldwide. Negative public opinion about us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, cyber security breaches, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, negative public opinion could also result 33 Table of Contents from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank, or BTMU or MUFG. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep, attract and retain lending and deposit customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action and increased liquidity risk. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to our company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market and investment risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk, counterparty risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework’s underlying assumptions, such as our modeling methodologies, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected, and there also could be consequent adverse regulatory implications in any such event. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud Since November 2008, all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock have been owned by MUFG through its wholly-owned subsidiary BTMU. As such, we would have been no longer required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); however, we have elected to voluntarily register our common stock under the Exchange Act and for so long as we maintain that registration in effect we will be required to continue to file such periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with a reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that may result in losses or adversely affect our earnings We may find it necessary to take actions or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction even though we are not required to do so by law. The risk that we will need to take such actions and incur the resulting losses or reductions in earnings is greater in periods when financial markets and the broader economy are performing poorly or are particularly volatile. As a result, such actions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, perhaps materially. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions As a result of trading, clearing or other relationships, we have exposure to many different counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers, dealers and investment banks. Many of these transactions expose us 34 Table of Contents to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include allowance for credit losses, acquired loans, FDIC indemnification asset, valuation of financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment, hedge accounting, pension obligations, annual goodwill impairment analysis, and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase or decrease the allowance for credit losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly different than the reserve provided, recognize significant impairment on goodwill, or significantly increase or decrease our accrued tax liability. Any of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 