Item 1A. Risk Factors The convergence of voice and data communications technologies could eliminate our competitive advantages and may, in fact, put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may experience increased competitive pressures, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and earnings. One of the critical drivers in the communications industry today is the convergence of voice and data communication technologies into various IP based platforms, all of which have the potential to provide VoIP, broadband services, and IP video over telephone companies’ copper and fiber networks, cable companies’ coaxial and fiber networks, wireless telephone companies’ wireless networks, satellite companies’ satellite networks and electric companies’ electric lines. Although each of the networks has relative strengths and weaknesses, they are all effectively in competition for the customers’ communications needs. These developments mean that we are competing for our existing customer base in our RLEC and CLEC territories with cable TV companies, wireless telephone companies, satellite communications providers and VoIP providers. The recent decreases in the number of access lines in our RLEC territories reflect such increased competition, in addition to the elimination of lines by our customers as they shift to DSL for high-speed Internet access. These developments have placed our core telephone business at risk, although also enabling us to compete in the provision of cable TV services. It is basic policy of the FCC and the PA PUC to encourage competition in the communications industry. Our RLECs have an exemption from providing certain interconnection requirements including collocation, unbundled network elements and resale of tariffed services at discounted rates. Further, our Buffalo Valley RLEC has a suspension of these requirements under state law through December 31, 2008. This exemption remains in place, and will remain in place after December 31, 2008 for our Buffalo Valley RLEC, until our RLECs receive a request for interconnection and the state public service commission determines that the request will not have a negative impact on universal service, will not be unduly economically burdensome, and is technically feasible. Our RLECs are in a position of having to challenge any request for removal of their rural exemption which may require them to provide interconnection to other providers without adequate compensation, cause us to incur administrative and regulatory costs as a result of administrative proceedings to determine whether the provider requesting interconnection has met its burden under the rural exemption of TA-96, cause our operating costs to increase as a result of having to make such interconnections, and at the same time cause us to suffer a loss of customers to such competitive providers. Local cable TV companies may use their own facilities and apply to be licensed as a facilities-based CLEC within our franchise territory in order to attempt to qualify for number portability. This would enable our existing telephone customers to switch to VoIP services provided by the cable TV companies and still retain the same telephone numbers, thus making the transfer of local telephone services to VoIP far more convenient to the customer. Service Electric Telephone Company, LLC, filed on September 2, 2005 with the PA PUC to be a facilities-based CLEC competitor in our Conestoga RLEC territory. In addition, CORE Communications, Inc (“CORE”) filed an amended application on August 19, 2005 with the PA PUC to be a facilities-based CLEC providing service in our RLEC territories. On January 25, 2006, CORE served our three RLECs with their Petition for Arbitration. Included in their filing is a request seeking a termination of the rural exemption for the limited purpose of permitting the interconnection standards to apply to any direct interconnection between our three RLECs and CORE. On January 8, 2007, CORE filed an Amended Petition for Arbitration of Interconnection Rates, Terms and Conditions with the PA PUC, seeking immediate PA PUC arbitration of issues on a collective basis with our three RLECs and a number of other small ILECs in Pennsylvania. We are actively engaged in these filings. We have reached an oral agreement with Service Electric and are in the process of obtaining signatures and then filing the signed agreement with the PA PUC. We will be working with CORE in an attempt to develop an interconnection agreement that can also be filed with the PA PUC. If negotiations fail, the matter will be arbitrated before the PA PUC, which arbitration is pending at the current time. In areas served by our CLEC, the incumbent carrier, Verizon, enjoys certain business advantages, including its size, financial resources, brand recognition and network connection to virtually all of our customers and potential customers in those areas. Similarly, in areas where we do or may provide video services, the incumbent cable operators enjoy certain business advantages, including their size, financial resources, brand recognition, and ownership of or superior access to programming. 23 Table of Contents As an integrated communications provider, we face competition from: • competitive local exchange carriers, including TelCove, Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Choice One and XO Communications; • wireless service providers, including AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, Immix and T-Mobile Wireless; • internet service providers, including AOL, EarthLink and MSN; • cable television companies, including Comcast, Pencor Services, Atlantic Broadband LLC, Service Electric and CATV Service, Inc.; • voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) providers, including Vonage, AT&T and Verizon; • providers of communications services, such as long distance services, including AT&T and Verizon Communications; • systems integration providers, including Technisource and Weidenhammer Systems Corp.; and • electric power companies as possible competitors in the future. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, major communications companies. These competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources and greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers than we do. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to compete against these large communications providers. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve or maintain adequate technology to remain competitive. Our continued addition of fiber to enhance our broadband capacity may be more difficult as a result of our indebtedness than for our competitors. Accordingly, it may be difficult to compete in any of our markets. We are subject to a complex and uncertain regulatory environment that may require us to alter our business plans. The United States communications industry is subject to federal, state and local regulations that are continually evolving. As new communications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations, and we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective manner. Federal and state regulatory trends toward a more competitive market place through reduced competitive entry standards are likely to have negative effects on our business and our ability to compete. In this regard, the regulatory environment governing ILEC operations has been and will likely continue to be very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access, which may increase the likelihood of new competitors offering similar services in our service areas. The introduction of new competitors could have a negative effect on our RLEC operating results, yet at the same time present operating benefits to our CLEC business. For more information, see Regulatory Environment discussion in Item 1 of this document. Prices for RLEC’s interstate services, consisting primarily of subscriber line charges and access charges for interstate and international toll calls, are regulated by the FCC based on the “average schedule” formulas developed by NECA. Changes in the average schedule formula amounts developed by NECA and implemented annually in July could have an impact on the RLEC’s future revenues. Our RLECs filed for changes in local and intrastate access rates to be effective July 1, 2006, in accordance with our Chapter 30 Plan. When we made our filings to increase certain local and intrastate access rates, no customer filed any complaint or request for intervention. The PA PUC identified a minor change to our filing, but allowed the new rates to go into effect on July 1, 2006 as modified for the change. Verizon, however, filed comments against our increase in intrastate access rates and requested that the PA PUC investigate our ability to increase access rates. On November 9, 2006, the PA PUC elected to have its Office of Administrative Law Judge hold a hearing to determine whether the increases in access rates violated any previous PA PUC order or 24 Table of Contents decision. This hearing was held on January 17, 2007. Our RLECs provided a witness in support of the access rate increases and the Office of Consumer Advocate and the Office of Small Business Advocate also filed comments in support of our RLEC’s rate increases. Verizon provided a witness contending that local end-user rates should be increased, not intrastate access rates. On February 20, 2007, the Administrative Law Judge issued a recommendation to the PA PUC that no rescission or amendment is warranted to our increase in certain local and intrastate access rates. The PA PUC is expected to provide its final order as to whether the increases in access rates will remain or whether refunds must be provided to access customers and increases in other rates, such as residential and business local service, be made in the alternative. The FCC has made and will continue to make regulatory changes that will affect both our RLEC and CLEC operations. Our CLEC depends, in certain circumstances, upon the technology and capabilities of other telephone companies as well as the quality, availability and maintenance of the facilities of those telephone companies. We must also maintain efficient procedures for ordering, provisioning, maintaining and repairing facilities from these other telephone companies. We may not be able to obtain facilities and services of satisfactory quality from other telephone companies, or on satisfactory terms and conditions, in which case we may experience delays in the growth of our CLEC networks and the degradation of the quality of our service to customers. The FCC has yet to significantly regulate VoIP offerings, maintaining regulatory uncertainty while placing VoIP services at a regulatory advantage over our RLEC legacy telephone services. The FCC has ordered strict requirements for the provision of 911 services by VoIP providers. All interconnected VoIP providers must notify customers regarding the provisions of 911 service and certify to the FCC that existing customers have been informed and that they acknowledged receipt of such information. Our ISP is in full compliance with the FCC requirements and we are working to make 911 service available everywhere we wish to offer the service. In addition to regulation of 911 service, the FCC has ordered that the requirements to make networks available for electronic surveillance by law enforcement agencies under the federal Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) applies to facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and a broad category of VoIP providers. The FCC is still considering whether to exempt small rural providers and certain other entities from these requirements. As we provide these services, we are, accordingly, in the process of making our network compliant with these additional CALEA requirements and anticipate that the capital expenditures to meet these requirements will be less than $0.3 million. The FCC has also enacted changes to certain technical rules that would foster broadband deployment using the capabilities of the nation’s power grid. All of these developments may result in an even more highly competitive environment in which electric utility companies are very likely to be in direct competition with telephone companies and cable TV operators in many locations. This development could cause telephone companies to lose their competitive edge in their territories and, consequently, result in significant inroads into their core telephone/voice business. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $207.0 million of total indebtedness, including current maturities and a capital lease obligation of $1.5 million. We refinanced our indebtedness in March 2004 and further amended our credit facility in November 2004 and September 2006. The effect of the refinancing and amendments was to lower the interest rates on our indebtedness, provide greater flexibility in our financial covenants and spread out the amortization of principal. This new structure, pursued to manage our balance sheet in order to better achieve our business plan, decreases the risks associated with our indebtedness. However, our indebtedness could still restrict our operations because we will use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, if any, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Additionally, our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns and competitive pressures. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants imposing financial and 25 Table of Contents operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and adversely affect the conduct of our business. These covenants place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur more indebtedness, pay dividends over $10 million annual limit, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions, make acquisitions or investments, use assets as security in other transactions, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with others, dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds, create liens on our assets and extend credit. The Systems Integration Segment could be affected by economic conditions of business customers. The sale of services and computer equipment in the Systems Integration business is dependent upon the willingness of companies to invest in improvements in their information technology and computer systems. This business may be affected by the economic conditions in our customers’ business sectors. We have continuing involvement in the Conestoga Wireless segment after its sale, which may adversely affect the continuing operations of the business. In connection with the acquisition of Conestoga, we committed to a plan to sell the assets of Conestoga’s wireless segment. The sale was completed on January 14, 2003. We have continuing involvement after the sale as a result of our continued guarantees on cell site leases. This obligation could restrict our operations by reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 