ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors or potential investors in Roberts Realty should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance, including our ability to make distributions to our investors. We have organized our summary of these risks into five subsections: 1. financing risks; 2. real estate related risks; 3. tax risks; 4. environmental and other legal risks; and 5. risks for investors in our stock. This section includes forward-looking statements. Financing Risks We face the immediate maturity of an $8,175,000 loan we owe to Wachovia bank, and we may be unable to extend this loan. We have two loans from Wachovia Bank totaling $12,252,000. An $8,175,000 loan will mature on March 31, 2008; the remaining $4,077,000 loan will mature on April 30, 2008. As explained on page 5, Wachovia has given us a term sheet for the extension of these loans. The term sheet is non-binding, however, and we can offer no assurances that Wachovia will extend these loans on the terms described on page 5 or otherwise. The discussions in the remainder of this report of our business plans, liquidity and capital resources assume that we will be able to obtain extensions of these loans as we expect. If we are unable to reach agreement with Wachovia to extend these loans, Wachovia could foreclose on our Peachtree Parkway and Highway 20 properties, which would have severe financial and business consequences for us. In that event, we could be forced to dispose of all or a substantial portion of our properties in highly unfavorable circumstances. We face the maturity of our other short-term debt, and we may be unable to repay, extend, or refinance this debt. At March 21, 2008, we have six mortgage loans totaling $32,103,000 that mature during the next 12 months, including the two loans we owe Wachovia. In addition, we have a $900,000 balance outstanding on our $2.5 million line of credit that comes up for renewal on July 31, 2008. If we are unable to refinance our debt at maturity on acceptable terms, or at all, or if we are unable to pursue successfully the strategies to reduce negative cash flow described in Item 1, Business — Trends above, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Those losses could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and to pay distributions to our investors. Further, if we are unable to meet mortgage payments on any mortgaged property, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain the debt and equity we need to carry out our planned development and construction program. To start construction of apartment communities on our Peachtree Parkway, Northridge, Sawmill Village, and Highway 20 properties, we will need a substantial additional amount of capital. We believe that any capital we need to fund the construction of a new multifamily property, in addition to a construction loan, would come from the proceeds of a sale of another property, the contributions of a joint venture partner, or equity we raise privately. We are not able to provide any assurance that we will be able to raise the debt and equity needed to complete the construction of even one new multifamily community as we hope. If we are unable to obtain debt and equity on favorable terms, we will be unable to carry out our planned development and construction program, and our returns to investors will be reduced accordingly. We face the normal risks associated with debt financing. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including: • the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; and • the risk that we will not be able to renew, repay, or refinance our debt when it matures or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of that debt. The payment terms contained in each mortgage note secured by one of our properties do not fully amortize the loan balance, and a balloon payment of the balance will be due upon its maturity. If we are unable to refinance our debt at maturity on acceptable terms or at all, we face the risks described in the first two risk factors above. Rising interest rates could materially and adversely affect the cost of our indebtedness. We have incurred and may again in the future incur debt that bears interest at a variable rate. As of March 21, 2008, we have approximately $33,003,000 in debt (including the $900,000 balance outstanding on our line of credit) that bears interest at a floating interest rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and distributions to our investors. Increased debt and leverage could affect our financial position and impair our ability to make distributions to our investors. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. We have an informal policy that we will not incur indebtedness in excess of 75% of what the board of directors believes is the fair market value of our assets at any given time. In the future, however, we may re-evaluate our borrowing policies in light of then current economic conditions, relative costs of debt and equity capital, market value of the operating partnership’s real estate assets, growth and acquisition opportunities, and other factors. Modification of this policy may adversely affect the interests of our shareholders. Additional leverage may: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 15 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the REIT industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the possible financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and distributions to our investors. If we incur additional debt, the agreements covering that debt could contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. Lending agreements will govern any additional debt we may incur for purchasing, developing, or constructing properties. Typically, these types of agreements contain various provisions that could limit our discretion in the operation of our business by restricting our ability to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments and other payments; • redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • consolidate or merge; • create liens; • sell assets; or • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. If we are unable to pay our obligations to our secured lenders, they could proceed against any or all of the collateral securing our indebtedness to them. In addition, a breach of the restrictions or covenants contained in our loan documents could cause an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay our indebtedness in full upon acceleration. Our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively protect us from fluctuations in interest rates. We generally enter into fixed rate debt instruments for our completed apartment communities. In certain situations, we may use derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate exposure on variable-rate debt. We do not use these instruments for trading or speculative purposes, but rather to increase the predictability of our financing costs. If the pricing of new debt instruments is not within the parameters of a particular interest rate hedging contract, the contract is ineffective. Contracts may also be ineffective when market interest rates produce a lower interest cost than we incur under the hedging contracts. Furthermore, the settlement of interest rate hedging contracts has involved and may in the future involve material charges. These charges are typically related to the extent and timing of fluctuations in interest rates. Despite our efforts to minimize our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we cannot guarantee that we will maintain coverage for all of our outstanding indebtedness at any particular time. If we do not effectively protect ourselves from this risk, we may be subject to increased interest costs resulting from interest rate fluctuations. 16 Table of Contents Real Estate Related Risks Our business currently operates at a loss. We have experienced and continue to experience negative operating cash flow as a result of selling seven apartment communities in 2004 and 2005. Because undeveloped land does not generate revenue, the majority of our negative cash flow is due to the carrying costs (interest expense and property taxes) on our undeveloped land. While we are experiencing modest improvement in the cash flow from our Addison Place community, we expect the financial performance of our four neighborhood retail centers and office building to continue to be challenged by the current weakness in the national and local economy. As a result, we expect to continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future and our cash position will continue to be adversely affected unless we successfully implement the strategies to reduce our negative cash flow described in Item 1, Business — Trends above. Real estate properties are illiquid and may be difficult to sell, particularly in a poor market environment like the present. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which limits our ability to react quickly to adverse changes in economic or other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets in the future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions. The current credit crunch may make it particularly difficult to sell our properties, because interested buyers may be unable to obtain the financing they need. We may be unable to sell our properties when we would prefer to do so to raise capital we need to fund our planned development and construction program or to fund distributions to investors. Construction risks inherent in the development and construction of new properties could negatively affect our financial performance. Development and construction costs may exceed our original estimates due to events beyond our control, including: • increased costs for or any unavailability of materials or labor; • building restrictions; • environmental impact studies by the government; • weather delays; • increased interest costs due to rising interest rates; and • any financial instability of the developer (Roberts Properties, Inc., which is owned by Mr. Charles S. Roberts, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors), general contractor (Roberts Properties Construction, Inc., also owned by Mr. Roberts) or any subcontractor. We may also be unable to complete development or construction of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs and loss of rents until the property is ready for occupancy. Additionally, the time required to recoup our development and construction costs and to realize a return, if any, on such costs can be long. Further, we typically enter into construction contracts on a cost plus basis. Because these contracts do not provide for a guaranteed maximum price, we must bear the entire amount of any increase in costs above the amounts we initially estimate, and these costs may be material. 17 Table of Contents We face leasing risks in our planned development and construction program. The success of a real estate development project depends in part on entering into leases with acceptable terms within the lease-up period. If the residential apartment homes, retail, or office space we have constructed is not leased on schedule and upon the expected terms and conditions, the yields, returns, and value creation on the project could be adversely affected. Whether or not residents and commercial tenants are willing to enter into leases on the terms and conditions we project and on the timetable we expect will depend on a large variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. We are currently concentrated in metropolitan Atlanta, and adverse changes in economic or market conditions in Atlanta could negatively affect our financial performance and condition. Currently, all our properties are located in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, and economic conditions in this area could adversely affect our performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • lack of employment growth; • supply and demand for properties; • neighborhood values in the submarkets in which our properties are located; • zoning and other regulatory conditions; • competition from other properties; • property taxes; • weather problems; and • price increases for materials or labor. The metropolitan Atlanta area has experienced economic recessions and depressed conditions in the local real estate markets in the past. Deteriorating general economic or social conditions or any natural disasters in this area could materially and adversely affect the value of our portfolio, our results of operations, and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and distributions to our investors. We face conflicts of interest because of our business dealings with our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates. Our business practice is to retain Roberts Properties to develop our properties and Roberts Construction to construct our properties. Mr. Charles S. Roberts, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, owns all of the equity interests in these two companies. We have in the past and may again in the future acquire properties from Mr. Roberts or his affiliates. Our goal for 2008 is to sell one or more properties to decrease our negative cash flow, and we may sell one or more properties to Roberts Properties or an affiliate of Roberts Properties. Although each agreement between Roberts Realty or the operating partnership on one hand and Roberts Properties or it affiliates on the other hand must be approved by our audit committee and the independent members of our board of directors, conflicts of interest inherent in these business transactions could result in our paying more for property or services than we would pay an independent seller or provider (or receiving less than we would receive from an independent buyer). These agreements and transactions have not had and will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties. These arrangements also expose us to the following risks, among others: • the possibility that the Roberts Companies might incur severe financial problems or even become bankrupt; 18 Table of Contents • the possibility that the Roberts Companies may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • the possibility that the Roberts Companies may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. We face substantial competition. All of our properties are located in developed areas where we face substantial competition from other properties and from other real estate companies that own or may develop or renovate competing properties. The substantial number of competitive properties and real estate companies in our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain high occupancy levels, increase rental rates, and attract creditworthy residents and commercial tenants. As a result, these factors could materially and adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio, our results of operations, our ability to pay amounts due on our mortgage debt, as well as our ability to pay distributions to our investors. Favorable conditions for purchasing residential properties could adversely affect our revenues from our apartment communities. Our apartment communities have historically competed with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other apartment communities, single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single-family homes. In the past, the affordability of owner occupied single-family homes caused by low mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership has adversely affected our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment homes, and increase or maintain rental rates. Despite the current economic weakness and the slowdown in the single-family housing market, we expect the desire and ability of prospective residents to purchase a single-family home to continue to be a substantial competitive risk. Changes in market or economic conditions may affect our business negatively. General economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect real property income and capital appreciation. The current economic weakness, punctuated by a slumping housing market and rapid tightening of available credit, leaves us vulnerable to adverse conditions beyond our control. As a result, we are unable to determine the precise effect the performance of the local, national, and worldwide economies will have on our financial results or on the value of our common stock. Terrorism could impair our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Attacks that directly affect one or more of our residential or commercial properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and impair our ability to achieve the results we expect. Our insurance coverage may not cover any losses caused by a terrorist attack. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our retail and office tenants may go bankrupt or be unable to make lease payments. Our operating revenues from our retail and office properties depend on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. Economic conditions may adversely affect existing tenants as well as prospective tenants in our market and, accordingly, could affect their ability to pay rents and possibly to occupy their space. Tenants may be forced to file for bankruptcy protection, and the bankruptcy court 19 Table of Contents may reject those leases or terminate them. If leases expire and are not renewed, replacement tenants may not be available under the same terms and conditions as the previous tenant. In addition, if market rental rates are lower than the previous contractual rates, our cash flows, and net income could be adversely affected. As a result, if a significant number of our retail or office tenants fail to pay their rent due to bankruptcy, weakened financial condition, or otherwise, it would negatively affect our financial performance and cash flow. Losses from natural catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance on our properties, which we believe is customary in amount and type for real property assets. We intend to obtain similar coverage for properties acquired in the future. Some losses of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods or high winds, may be subject to limitations. We may not be able to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Further, our insurance costs could increase in future periods. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of the lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. Our business depends on key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and key personnel. We face substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Roberts, could have an adverse effect on us. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our executive officers or other key employees. If we are unable to lease up our Addison Place Shops and our Northridge office building as we intend, our financial performance and condition could suffer. We currently have two properties, the Addison Place Shops and the Northridge office building, that are in the lease-up phase. At March 21, 2008, the Addison Place Shops are approximately 37% leased and occupied, and the Northridge office building is approximately 59% leased and 44% occupied. If we are unable to lease the remaining vacant space of these two properties as we intend, our financial performance will be adversely affected. Tax Risks Our company may fail to qualify for REIT status under federal income tax laws. Our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes depends upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual annual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests and organizational requirements imposed upon REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes since our inception in 1994, and we plan to continue to meet the requirements to qualify as a REIT in the future. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. We cannot guarantee, therefore, that we have qualified or will continue to qualify in the future as a REIT. The determination that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes requires an analysis of various factual matters that may not be totally within our control. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and 20 Table of Contents regulations, and the courts might issue new decisions that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions of the Internal Revenue Code did not apply, we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, leaving less money available for distributions to investors. In addition, distributions to shareholders or unitholders in any year in which we failed to qualify would not be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Failing to qualify as a REIT would eliminate our requirement to make distributions to shareholders or unitholders, as well. We would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless we were entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions. It is not possible to predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to such statutory relief. Our failure to qualify as a REIT likely would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Our operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Management believes that our operating partnership qualifies, and has qualified since its formation in 1994, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. We can provide no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. In addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Environmental and Other Legal Risks We may have liability under environmental laws. Under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. Therefore, we may have liability with respect to properties we have already sold. If environmental problems arise, we may have to take extensive measures to remedy the problems, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions to our investors because: • we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination; • the law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination; • even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and • governmental entities or other third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products and the failure to remediate that contamination properly may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, 21 Table of Contents sell, or lease an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. We face risks related to mold. Recently, there has been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. Although our insurance policy currently does not exclude mold-related claims, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain coverage in the future for mold-related claims at a commercially reasonable price or at all. The presence of significant mold could expose us to liability to residents, tenants, and others if allegations regarding property damage, health concerns, or similar claims arise. We may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities for which we have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the seller. These liabilities can include: • claims by tenants, vendors, or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and • claims for indemnification by directors, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If we have to expend time and money to deal with these claims, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We face risks in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we could be subject to regulatory action or other litigation and our operating results could be harmed. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we were required to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with our 2009 fiscal year (assuming the one-year extension recently proposed by the SEC becomes effective), our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and identified a material weakness in our information technology general controls as of December 31, 2007. Because of this material weakness, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007. We have implemented or plan to implement remediation measures that are designed to eliminate the material weakness in our information technology general controls and, as a result, improve our internal control over financial reporting so that it complies with the requirements of Section 404. For more detailed information about the material weakness and our remediation plan, please see Item 9A(T), Controls and Procedures, in this report. We cannot provide assurances regarding the timing or effectiveness of the remediation measures. If we fail to remediate the material weakness, there is a risk that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, if we are 22 Table of Contents unable to substantially improve our information technology general controls or fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as those standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other similar laws could result in substantial costs. A number of federal, state, and local laws and regulations (including the Americans with Disabilities Act) may require modifications to existing buildings or restrict certain renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons and may require other structural features that add to the cost of buildings under construction. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial, and restrictions on construction or completion of renovations may limit implementation of our investment strategy in certain instances or reduce overall returns on our investments, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay distributions to investors and to pay our mortgage debt as required. Risks for Investors in Our Stock We do not pay regular quarterly dividends, and we do not anticipate making distributions to investors for the indefinite future, other than possibly to preserve our REIT status if so required. Unlike other REITs that pay regular quarterly dividends, we have not paid a quarterly dividend since the third quarter of 2001, and we presently have no plans to resume paying regular quarterly dividends. Since 2001, we have paid distributions only from the net cash proceeds of property sales. In light of our negative cash flow from operations, we will pay distributions only (a) from the net cash proceeds of a property sale or (b) if we need to do so to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The market price of our stock is subject to fluctuation as a result of our operating results, the operating results of other REITs, and changes in the stock market in general. The daily trading volume of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange has historically been relatively light, and the market price may not reflect the fair market value of our common stock (or our net asset value) at any particular moment. Prior sales data do not necessarily indicate the prices at which our common stock would trade in a more active market. The market value of our common stock may be based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and current and future cash dividends, and may be secondarily based upon the real estate market value of our underlying assets. In addition, general market conditions or market conditions of real estate companies in general could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Additional issuances of equity securities may dilute the investment of our current shareholders. Issuing additional equity securities to finance future developments and acquisitions instead of incurring additional debt could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. Our ability to execute our business plan depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which could include a line of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, equity financing, or joint ventures. 23 Table of Contents Restrictions on changes of control could prevent a beneficial takeover for investors. A number of the provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company. In particular, to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must comply with various requirements and avoid various prohibited events. A company cannot be a REIT if, during the last half of a taxable year, more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is owned by five or fewer individual shareholders, taking into account certain constructive ownership tests. To help the company comply with that test, Article 5 of our articles of incorporation provides in substance that (a) Mr. Roberts cannot own more than 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (b) no other person can own more than 3.7% of our outstanding common stock. These provisions, which are intended to limit the ownership of our common stock by five persons to no more than 49.8% of our outstanding shares, have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws have other provisions that have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company, including: • our classified board of directors, which may render more difficult a change in control of the company or removal of incumbent management, because the term of office of only one-third of the directors expires in a given year; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock; • provisions in the articles of incorporation to the effect that no transaction of a fundamental nature, including mergers in which the company is not the survivor, share exchanges, consolidations, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, may be effectuated without the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters of the votes entitled to vote generally in any such matter; • provisions in the articles of incorporation to the effect that they may not be amended (except for certain limited matters) without the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters of the votes entitled to be voted generally in the election of directors; • provisions in the bylaws to the effect that they may be amended by either the affirmative vote of three-quarters of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of the directors, or the affirmative vote of a majority of the company’s directors then holding office, unless the shareholders prescribed that any such bylaw may not be amended or repealed by the board of directors; • Georgia anti-takeover statutes under which the company may elect to be protected; and • provisions to the effect that directors elected by the holders of common stock may be removed only by the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 75% of all of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. A redemption of units is taxable. Holders of units in our operating partnership should keep in mind that a redemption of units will be treated as a sale of units for federal income tax purposes. The exchanging holder will generally recognize gain in an amount equal to the value of the common shares, plus the amount of liabilities of the operating partnership allocable to the units being redeemed, less the holder’s tax basis in the units. It is possible that the amount of gain recognized or the resulting tax liability could exceed the value of the shares received in the redemption. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 