Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, whether oral or written. We wish to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s present expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, these statements are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial that also may impair our business operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. We have separated the risks into the following categories: • Liquidity risks; • Risks related to our business operations; • Risks related to the pending SEC investigation and other pending litigation; • Risks related to the senior living industry; and • Risks related to our organization and structure. Liquidity Risks As described in Significant 2009 and 2010 Developments in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we are currently in discussions with our lenders and venture partners to implement a restructuring of our financial obligations. However, there can be no assurances that these efforts will prove successful and we could be forced to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are in default under a number of our financial obligations with respect to our lenders and our venture partners. In addition, we have significant indebtedness coming due in 2010 and 2011. We are seeking waivers with respect to all defaults and are seeking to reach negotiated settlements with our various creditors to preserve our liquidity and to enable us to continue operating. However, there can be no assurance that waivers will be received or such settlements will be reached. If the defaults are not cured within applicable cure periods, if any, and if waivers or other relief are not obtained, the defaults can cause acceleration of our financial obligations under the agreements, which we may not be in a position to satisfy. In the event of a failure to obtain necessary waivers or otherwise achieve a restructuring of our financial obligations, we could be forced to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are required to perform under various financial guarantees or support arrangements that we have entered into as part of our operating strategy. As part of our normal operations, we provide debt guarantees and operating deficit guarantees to some of our ventures, lenders to the ventures, or third party owners. The terms of some of these obligations do not include a limitation on the maximum potential future payments. If we are required to fund or perform under these arrangements, the amounts funded either become loans to the venture, or are recorded as a reduction in revenue or as an expense. If we are required to fund any amounts related to these arrangements, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to ultimately recover funded amounts. We continue to be liable under certain operating deficit and repayment guarantees for the Klein Flottbeck and Wiesbaden communities. If we are unable to negotiate with the lenders to amend these operating deficit and repayment guarantees, we may be required to perform under these guarantees and may not have sufficient operating cash to meet these obligations at the time they become due. 13 Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to cover required interest, principal and operating lease payments could result in defaults of the related debt or operating leases. At December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $440.2 million. We cannot give any assurance that we or our ventures will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to cover required interest, principal and operating lease payments. Any payment or other default could cause the lender to foreclose upon the facilities securing the indebtedness or, in the case of an operating lease, could terminate the lease, with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. A payment or other default with respect to venture indebtedness also could trigger our obligations under support arrangements, as described in the risk factor above entitled “Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are required to perform under various financial guarantees or support arrangements that we have entered into as part of our operating strategy”. In some cases, the indebtedness is secured by the community and a pledge of our interests in the community. In the event of a default, the lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by foreclosing on the pledge instead, thus accelerating the lender’s acquisition of the community. Further, because our mortgages generally contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions, a nonpayment or other default by us could affect a significant number of communities. Our failure to comply with financial obligations contained in debt instruments could result in the acceleration of the debt extended pursuant to such debt instruments, trigger other rights and restrict our operating and acquisition activity, and in the case of ventures, may cause acceleration of the venture’s debt repayment obligations and any of our correlated guarantee obligations. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions applicable to us in our debt instruments, including provisions that: • require us to satisfy financial statement delivery requirements; • require us to meet certain financial tests; • restrict our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock; • require consent for a change in control; and • restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of all or substantially all assets, or engage in mergers or other business combinations in which we are not the surviving entity without lender consent. These covenants could reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations by limiting our ability to borrow money and may create a risk of default on our debt if we cannot continue to satisfy these covenants. If we default under our debt instruments, the debt extended pursuant to such debt instruments could become due and payable prior to its stated due date. We cannot give any assurance that we could pay this debt if it became due. Further, our Bank Credit Facility contains a cross-default provision pursuant to which a default on other indebtedness by us or by any of our consolidated subsidiaries under the Bank Credit Facility could result in the ability of the lenders to declare a default under and accelerate the indebtedness due under the Bank Credit Facility. There are various financial covenants, financial statement delivery requirements, and other restrictions applicable to us in the debt instruments relating to certain of our ventures. Failure to comply with these covenants may trigger acceleration of the ventures’ debt repayment obligations and any of our correlated guarantee obligations or give rise to any of the other remedies provided for in such debt instruments. Additionally, certain of our venture agreements provide that an event of default under the venture’s debt instruments that is caused by us may also be considered an event of default by us under the venture agreement, giving our venture partner the right to pursue the remedies provided for in the venture agreement, potentially including a termination and winding up of the venture. Certain of our management agreements, both with ventures and with entities owned by third parties, provide that an event of default under the debt instruments applicable to the ventures or the entities owned by third parties that is caused by us may also be considered an event of default by us under the relevant management agreement, giving the non-Sunrise party to the management agreement the right to pursue the remedies provided for in the management agreement, potentially including termination of the management agreement. 14 The failure of our 2009 cost reduction plan to achieve sufficient expense savings. In May 2009, we announced a plan to continue to reduce corporate expenses through reorganization of our corporate cost structure, including a reduction in spending related to, among other areas, administrative processes, vendors, and consultants. The plan is designed to reduce our annual recurring general and administrative expenses (including expenses previously classified as venture expense) to approximately $100 million, and to reduce our centrally administered services which are charged to the communities by approximately $1.5 million. Under the plan, approximately 184 positions will be eliminated. As of December 31, 2009, we had eliminated 154 positions and will be eliminating an additional 30 positions by mid 2010. Although we believe we will be able to reduce costs sufficiently, unforeseen events may affect our ability to fully implement the expense reduction plan or if the plan fails to achieve the anticipated results, we may not have sufficient operating cash to meet our obligations. Our ability to execute our plan to sell certain assets. In 2010, we intend to sell (i) our German communities, (ii) unencumbered North American properties that are held as collateral for the German electing lender (the “liquidating trust”) and, at our discretion, (iii) certain communities and land parcels, of which any net sales proceeds would be split equally between us, the mortgage holder and the lenders under the Bank Credit Facility. If we are unable to sell certain assets as planned, we may not have sufficient cash to meet our obligations. Risks Related to Our Business Operations The current economic environment could affect our ability to obtain financing for various purposes, including any refinancing of our Bank Credit Facility or other debt due in 2010 and 2011, on reasonable terms and could have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. The United States stock and credit markets have continued to experience price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making the terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing for the continuation of our operations and other purposes, including the refinancing of our Bank Credit Facility or other debt due in 2010 and 2011, at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our business. We have significant current maturities of long-term debt and a significant amount is in default. The downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital, including through the issuance of common stock. The disruptions in the financial markets have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us and our business. Due to the dependency of our revenues on private pay sources, events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our monthly resident fees or entrance fees (including downturns in housing markets or the economy) could cause our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations to decline. Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our communities are located typically can afford to pay our monthly resident fees. The length of the current economic downturn or future downturns or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees. In addition, downturns in the housing markets, such as the one we are currently experiencing, could adversely affect the ability (or perceived ability) of seniors to afford our resident fees as our customers frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of our fees. If we are unable to retain and/or attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other service offerings, our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations could decline. In addition, if the recent volatility in the housing market continues further, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. If our venture communities experience poor performance, we also may need to write down the value of our investment in the venture, which would adversely affect our financial results. 15 Termination of resident agreements and vacancies in communities could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living communities generally require written resident agreements with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident agreements signed by us generally allow residents to terminate their agreement on 30 days’ notice. Thus, we cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with specified leasing periods of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that could adversely affect those operations and thus our profitability and operating results. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 15 communities in Canada, 27 communities in the United Kingdom and seven communities in Germany with a total unit capacity of approximately 4,300. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks including: exposure to local economic conditions; varying laws relating to, among other things, employment and employment termination; changes in foreign regulatory requirements; restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures including value-added taxes. In addition, we have limited experience developing and operating senior living facilities in international markets. If we are not successful in operating in international markets, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Early termination or non-renewal of our management agreements could cause a loss in revenues. We operate senior living communities for third parties and unconsolidated ventures pursuant to management agreements. At December 31, 2009, approximately 88% of our communities were managed for third parties or unconsolidated ventures. The initial terms of our third-party management agreements generally ranges from five to 30 years. In most cases, either party to the agreements may terminate upon the occurrence of an event of default caused by the other party. In addition, in some cases, subject to our rights, if any, to cure deficiencies, community owners may terminate us as manager if any licenses or certificates necessary for operation are revoked, if there is a change in control of Sunrise or if we do not maintain a minimum stabilized occupancy level in the community or certain designated performance thresholds. In June 2009, we were terminated as manager for a portfolio of 15 communities. We managed these communities through October 1, 2009. The management fees for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $2.3 million, $3.0 million and $2.9 million, respectively. In addition, our contract with Ventas has a combined performance termination test that permits Ventas to terminate our contract for all communities failing a specified targeted termination threshold based on expected adjusted net operating income of the community if there is a failure by more than 25% of all communities we manage for Ventas. As of December 31, 2009, we may have failed the specified termination thresholds on more than 25% of these communities. The targeted termination threshold increases each year based on CPI. We are in discussions with our venture partner regarding these issues. With respect to communities held in ventures, in some cases, the management agreement can be terminated in connection with the sale by the venture partner of its interest in the venture or the sale of properties by the venture. Also, in some instances, a community owner may terminate the management agreement relating to a particular community if we are in default under other management agreements relating to other communities owned by the same owner or its affiliates. In some of our agreements, the community owner may terminate the management agreement for any reason or no reason provided it pays the termination fee specified in the agreement. Early termination of our management agreements or non-renewal or renewal on less-favorable terms could cause a loss in revenues and could negatively impact earnings. 16 Our failure to attract partners for developing senior living communities in the future could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations, and harm our ability to finance the construction of new communities. Historically, we have developed senior living communities with third-party partners and entered into long-term management contracts to manage these communities. This strategy of developing senior living communities with partners has enabled us to re-deploy our capital into new development projects, finance development and expand our portfolio of managed communities. The development of new communities with third-party partners is subject to various market conditions and the attractiveness of other investment opportunities available to our partners. Due to current market conditions, we have halted development of communities. Ownership of the communities we manage is heavily concentrated with three of our business partners. We are in material litigation with one of the three. As of December 31, 2009, we managed 79 communities for Ventas, 75 communities for HCP and 52 communities for a privately owned capital partner. In June 2009, various affiliates of HCP and their associated tenant entities filed nine complaints in the Delaware Court of Chancery naming the Company and several of its subsidiaries as defendants. The complaints allege monetary and non-monetary defaults under a series of owner and management agreements that govern nine portfolios comprised of 64 properties with annual management fees of approximately $25.9 million in 2009 and $25.4 million in 2008. We have $18.3 million of unamortized management contract intangibles relating to these contracts. In each case, the plaintiffs include (a) the HCP affiliates that own various assisted living community properties that are managed by Sunrise, and (b) certain tenant entities alleged to be independent from HCP that lease those properties from HCP affiliates and have management agreements with Sunrise. The complaints assert claims for (1) declaratory judgment; (2) injunctive relief; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of fiduciary duties; (5) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (6) equitable accounting; and (7) constructive trust. The complaints seek equitable relief, including a declaration of a right to terminate the agreements, disgorgement, unspecified money damages, and attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs filed a motion to expedite the proceedings. Following briefing by the parties, the Delaware Court of Chancery on July 9, 2009 denied the plaintiff’s motion. In July 2009, various affiliates of HCP and their associated tenant entities refiled a complaint, which had been voluntarily withdrawn in the Delaware actions, in the federal district court for the Eastern District of Virginia (the “Virginia action”). On August 17, 2009, Sunrise answered all of the complaints in both jurisdictions and asserted counterclaims. The communities that we manage for these business partners are generally subject to long-term management agreements (up to 30 years) as well as other agreements related to development, support and other guarantee arrangements. This sizeable concentration could give these partners significant influence over our operating strategies and could therefore heighten the business risks disclosed above. A significant concentration might also make us more susceptible to an adverse impact from the financial distress that might be experienced by a partner. Any inability or unwillingness by any of these business partners to satisfy its obligations under their agreements with us including the obligation to make capital expenditures in the communities or to maintain Sunrise’s brand standards, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our current and future investments in ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our venture partners. As of December 31, 2009, we had a minority equity interest in ventures that we do not control which owned 201 senior living communities. These ventures involve risks not present with respect to our consolidated communities or the communities that we manage only. These risks include the following: • we share or have lesser decision-making authority with certain of our venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the venture and the community, such as the sale of the community or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the community and the approval of the annual operating and capital budgets, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our venture partners; 17 • prior consent of our venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interest in the venture; • our venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a community or increase our financial commitment to the venture; • our venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the community that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the community; • disputes may develop with our venture partners over decisions affecting the community or the venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business, and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the community such as delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved; and • we may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our venture partners with respect to our venture investments. The refinancing or sale of communities held in ventures may not result in future distributions to us. When the majority equity partner in one of our ventures sells its equity interest to a third party, the venture frequently refinances its senior debt and distributes the net proceeds to the equity partners. Distributions received by us are first recorded as a reduction of our investment. Next, we record a liability if there is a contractual obligation or implied obligation to support the venture including through our role as a general partner. Any remaining distributions are recorded as income. We refer to these transactions as “recapitalizations.” Additionally, most of our ventures are structured to provide a distribution to us upon the sale of the communities in the ventures. None of the agreements governing our venture arrangements require refinancings of debt in connection with the sale of equity interests by our venture partners. If the venture does not refinance senior debt or the property has not appreciated we would not receive any distributions in connection with the sale of equity interests by our venture partners. In addition, there can be no assurance that future “recapitalizations” or asset sales will result in distributions to us. In addition, if market conditions deteriorate or our communities experience poor performance, the amounts distributed to us upon “recapitalizations” or assets sales could be materially reduced or we may not receive distributions in some cases. Liability claims against us in excess of insurance limits could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The senior living business entails an inherent risk of liability. In recent years, we, as well as other participants in our industry, have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging negligence or similar claims. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and significant legal costs. We maintain liability insurance policies in amounts we believe are adequate based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. We purchase insurance for property, casualty and other risks from insurers based on published ratings by recognized rating agencies, advice from national insurance brokers and consultants and other industry-recognized insurance information sources. Moreover, certain insurance policies cover events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. Any of these insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Certain liability risks, including general and professional liability, workers’ compensation and automobile liability, and employment practices liability are insured in insurance policies with affiliated (i.e., wholly owned captive insurance companies) and unaffiliated insurance companies. We are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit determined by individual policies and subject to aggregate limits in certain prior policy periods. Liabilities within these self-insured limits are estimated annually by management after considering all available information, including expected cash flows and actuarial analysis. In the event these estimates are inadequate, we may have to fund the shortfall and our operating results could be negatively impacted. 18 Claims may arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance policies or that are not covered by our insurance policies. If a successful claim is made against us and it is not covered by our insurance or exceeds the policy limits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our obligations to pay the cost of claims within our self-insured limits include the cost of claims that arise today but are reported in the future. We estimate an amount to reserve for these future claims. In the event these estimates are inadequate, we may have to fund the shortfall and our operating results could be negatively affected. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract residents or expand our business and could require our management to devote time to matters unrelated to the operation of our business. We also have to renew our policies periodically and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at acceptable levels. We have established a liability for outstanding losses and expenses at December 31, 2009, but the liability may ultimately be settled for a greater or lesser amount. Any subsequent changes are recorded in the period in which they are determined and will be shared with the communities participating in the insurance programs. Interest rate increases could adversely affect our earnings because a portion of our total debt is floating rate debt. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $438.9 million of floating-rate debt at a weighted average interest rate of 2.85%. Debt incurred in the future also may bear interest at floating rates. Therefore, increases in prevailing interest rates could increase our interest payment obligations, which would negatively impact earnings. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are subject to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements. To date, we have not hedged against foreign currency fluctuations; however, we may pursue hedging alternatives in the future. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our wholly owned subsidiaries have net U.S. dollar equivalent monetary liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of $60.7 million, $2.1 million and $18.7 million in Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, respectively. We recorded $6.7 million, net, in exchange gains in 2009 ($8.0 million in gains related to the Canadian dollar and $(1.3) million in losses related to the Euro and British pound). Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We have identified certain accounting estimates as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. The risks related to our critical accounting estimates are described under “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting estimates, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not change our estimates, which could cause us to make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded. These adjustments could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The discovery of environmental problems at any of the communities we own or operate could result in substantial costs to us, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of medical waste generated at our facilities; identification and removal of the presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings; the presence of other substances in the indoor environment, including mold; and protection of the environment and natural resources in connection with development or construction of our communities. 19 Some of our facilities generate infectious or other hazardous medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. Each of our facilities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste, but the use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to clean-up disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, we would face increased expenditures both in terms of fines and remediation of the underlying problem(s), potential litigation relating to exposure to such materials, and potential decrease in value to our business and in the value of our underlying assets, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings, our financial condition and our ability to pursue our growth strategy. In addition, we are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local environmental regulation and legislation. Changes in the environmental regulatory framework could result in significant increased costs related to complying with such new regulations and result in a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, because environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities, further increasing our cost of operations. Unionization may impact wage rates and work rules. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 37,600 employees of which approximately 500 were employed at our corporate headquarters. In 2006, employees at one community in Canada voted to be represented by a union. There are approximately 90 employees represented by the union. We believe that a union free workplace is in the best interest of our residents, our team members and us and accordingly, we plan to expend significant organizational effort to maintain a union free workplace. Risks Related to the Pending SEC Investigation and Pending Litigation Arising Out of the Prior Announcement of Our Restatement of Historical Financial Statements for 2005 and Prior Periods, Other Pending Government Proceedings and Other Pending Litigation The SEC’s formal investigation has resulted in significant costs and expenses, diverted resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We previously announced on December 11, 2006 that we had received a request from the SEC for information about insider stock sales, timing of stock option grants and matters relating to our historical accounting practices that had been raised in media reports in the latter part of November 2006 following receipt of a letter by us from the Service Employees International Union. On May 25, 2007, we were advised by the staff of the SEC that it had commenced a formal investigation. We have fully cooperated, and intend to continue to fully cooperate, with the SEC. We have commenced discussions with the SEC staff concerning potential resolution of the matter and conclusion of the investigation. In addition, our management, Board of Directors and employees have expended a substantial amount of time on the SEC formal investigation and these other matters, diverting a significant amount of resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and the implementation of our business strategy, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, if the SEC were to conclude that enforcement action is appropriate, we could be required to pay large civil penalties and fines. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in other litigation matters that will continue to divert our resources and attention, and could result in substantial monetary damages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we do not prevail. As described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we are currently involved in a significant lawsuit. If we do not prevail in this or other lawsuits, our management contracts could be terminated and/or we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 The IRS audit may result in substantial fines and penalties, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As more fully described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, the United States Internal Revenue Service is auditing our 2005 through 2008 federal income tax returns. The IRS audit may result in payments of unpaid taxes, interest and penalties. Any such reimbursements and payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements between us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, we have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors and officers with respect to the pending SEC investigation, including potentially for any liability for securities violations resulting therefrom. These indemnifiable obligations may not be reimbursable under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. In connection with some of the matters discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we have advanced legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. We purchase directors and officers liability insurance from insurers based on published ratings by recognized rating agencies, advice from national insurance brokers and consultants and other industry-related insurance information sources. Our directors and officers liability insurance covers events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. The insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. In addition, the insurer’s obligation to defend, pay, or reimburse us for insured claims would cease with respect to an individual if that individual were found to have committed a deliberate criminal or fraudulent act or in the event we ultimately determine that the individual is not entitled to indemnification. Under our directors and officers liability insurance policy, we are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit. In addition, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Senior Living Industry Competition in our industry is high and may increase, which could impede our growth and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. The senior living industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other companies that provide similar senior living alternatives, such as home health care agencies, community-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other senior living providers. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent and assisted living segments of the senior living industry are not as substantial as in the skilled nursing segment of the senior living industry. In pursuing our growth strategies, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience competition in our efforts to develop and operate senior living communities. We expect that there will be competition from existing competitors and new market entrants, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. Consequently, we may encounter competition that could limit our ability to attract new residents, increase resident fee rates, attract and retain capital partners for our ventures or expand our development activities or our business in general, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Similarly, overbuilding or oversupply in any of the markets in which we operate could cause us to experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. Increased competition for residents could also require us to undertake unbudgeted capital improvements or to lower our rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 21 Our success depends on attracting and retaining skilled personnel and increased competition for or a shortage of skilled personnel could increase our staffing and labor costs, which we may not be able to offset by increasing the rates we charge to our residents. We compete with various health care services providers, including other senior living providers, in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of each community. Turnover rates and the magnitude of the shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel vary substantially from community to community. Increased competition for or a shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates we charge to our residents or our management fees. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business, including our ability to implement our growth strategy, and operating results could be harmed. The need to comply with government regulation of senior living communities may increase our costs of doing business and increase our operating costs. Senior living communities are generally subject to regulation and licensing by federal, state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. Although requirements vary from state to state and community to community, in general, these requirements may include or address: • personnel education, training, and records; • administration and supervision of medication; • the provision of limited nursing services; • admission and discharge criteria; • documentation, reporting and disclosure requirements; • staffing requirements; • monitoring of resident wellness; • physical plant specifications; • furnishing of resident units; • food and housekeeping services; • emergency evacuation plans; and • resident rights and responsibilities. In several of the states in which we operate or intend to operate, laws may require a certificate of need before a senior living community can be opened. In most states, senior living communities are also subject to state or local building codes, fire codes, and food service licensing or certification requirements. Independent living communities are unregulated and not subject to state or federal inspection. However, communities that feature a combination of senior living options such as CCRCs, consisting of independent living campuses with a promise of future assisted living and/or skilled nursing services and an entrance fee requirement, are regulated by state government, usually the state’s department of insurance. CCRCs are subject to state regulation of minimum standards to ensure financial solvency and are required to give annual disclosure regarding such things as the community’s financial standing, the contractual obligations of services to the residents, residents’ rights and costs to residents to reside in the community. Communities licensed to provide skilled nursing services generally provide significantly higher levels of resident assistance. Communities that are licensed, or will be licensed, to provide skilled nursing services may participate in federal health care programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, some licensed assisted living communities may participate in state Medicaid-waiver programs. Such communities must meet certain federal and/or state requirements regarding their operations, including requirements related to physical 22 environment, resident rights, and the provision of health services. Communities that participate in federal health care programs are entitled to receive reimbursement from such programs for care furnished to program beneficiaries and recipients. Senior living communities that include assisted living facilities, nursing facilities, or home health care agencies are subject to periodic surveys or inspections by governmental authorities to assess and assure compliance with regulatory requirements. Such unannounced surveys may occur annually or bi-annually, or can occur following a state’s receipt of a complaint about the community. As a result of any such inspection, authorities may allege that the senior living community has not complied with all applicable regulatory requirements. Typically, senior living communities then have the opportunity to correct alleged deficiencies by implementing a plan of correction. In other cases, the authorities may enforce compliance through imposition of fines, imposition of a provisional or conditional license, suspension or revocation of a license, suspension or denial of admissions, loss of certification as a provider under federal health care programs, or imposition of other sanctions. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to enforcement action that can materially and adversely affect business and revenues. Like other senior living communities, we have received notice of deficiencies from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Regulation of the senior living industry is evolving. Our operations could suffer if future regulatory developments, such as mandatory increases in scope of care given to residents, licensing and certification standards are revised, or a determination is made that the care provided by one or more of our communities exceeds the level of care for which the community is licensed. If regulatory requirements increase, whether through enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the application of existing rules, our operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels in recent years for reform affecting payment of health care services. Some aspects of these initiatives could adversely affect us, such as reductions in Medicare or Medicaid program funding. We are also subject to certain federal and state laws that regulate financial arrangements by health care providers, such as the Federal Anti-Kickback Law. This law makes it unlawful for any person to offer or pay (or to solicit or receive) “any remuneration...directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind” for referring or recommending for purchase of any item or service which is eligible for payment under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Authorities have interpreted this statute very broadly to apply to many practices and relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. If a health care provider were to violate the Anti-Kickback Law, it may face criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Similarly, health care providers are subject to the False Claims Act with respect to their participation in federal health care reimbursement programs. Under the False Claims Act, the government or private individuals acting on behalf of the government may bring an action alleging that a health care provider has defrauded the government and seek treble damages for false claims and the payment of additional monetary civil penalties. Many states have enacted similar anti-kickback and false claims laws that may have a broad impact on health care providers and their payor sources. Recently other health care providers have faced enforcement action under the False Claims Act. It is difficult to predict how our revenue could be affected if we were subject to an action alleging violations. We are also subject to federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality of patient health information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has issued rules pursuant to HIPAA relating to the privacy of such information. In addition, many states have confidentiality laws, which in some cases may exceed the federal standard. We have adopted procedures for the proper use and disclosure of residents’ health information in compliance with the relevant state and federal laws, including HIPAA. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law could make it more difficult to effect a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us or discourage an attempt 23 to do so. In addition, these provisions could limit the price some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. These provisions include: • Board authority to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock having a preference as to dividends or liquidation over the common stock without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Sunrise; • Filling of Board vacancies; removal. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including any vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, shall be filled for the unexpired term by the vote of a majority of the directors then in office, and any director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Directors may be removed with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, provided, that no special meeting may be called at the request of the stockholders for the purpose of removing any director without cause; • Other constituency provision. Our Board of Directors is required under our certificate of incorporation to consider other constituencies, such as employees, residents, their families and the communities in which we and our subsidiaries operate, in evaluating any proposal to acquire the Company. This provision may allow our Board of Directors to reject an acquisition proposal even though the proposal was in the best interests of our stockholders subject to any overriding applicable law; • Call of special meetings. A special meeting of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president, by a majority of the directors or by stockholders possessing at least 25% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding voting stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, provided, that no special meeting may be called at the request of the stockholders for the purpose of removing any director without cause. This provision limits the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; • Stockholder action instead of meeting by unanimous written consent. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders must be affected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such holders, unless such consent is unanimous. This provision limits the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • Supermajority vote of stockholders or the directors required for bylaw amendments. A two-thirds vote of the outstanding shares of common stock is required for stockholders to amend the bylaws. Amendments to the bylaws by directors require approval by at least a two-thirds vote of the directors. These provisions may make more difficult bylaw amendments that stockholders may believe are desirable; • Two-thirds stockholder vote required to approve some amendments to the certificate of incorporation. A two-thirds vote of the outstanding shares of common stock is required for approval of amendments to the foregoing provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. All amendments to the certificate of incorporation must first be proposed by a two-thirds vote of directors. These supermajority vote requirements may make more difficult amendments to these provisions of the certificate of incorporation that stockholders may believe are desirable; and • Advance notice bylaw. We have an advance notice bylaw provision requiring stockholders intending to present nominations for directors or other business for consideration at a meeting of stockholders to notify us by a certain date depending on whether the matters are to be considered at an annual or special meeting. Stockholders proposing matters for consideration at an annual meeting must provide notice not earlier than 120 days and not later than 90 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the immediately preceding annual meeting. If, however, the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, stockholder notice must be delivered not earlier than 120 days and not later than 90 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, provided, however, that if the first public announcement of the date is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, then stockholder notice must be delivered not later than the 10th day following such public announcement. Stockholders proposing matters for consideration at a special meeting must provide notice not less than 120 calendar days prior to the date of the special meeting, provided, however, that if the first public announcement 24 of the date of such special meeting is less than 130 days prior to the date of such special meeting, stockholder notice must be delivered not later than the 10th day following such public announcement. In addition to the anti-takeover provisions described above, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 generally prohibits a person beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in a business combination with us for three years after the person acquired the stock. However, this prohibition does not apply if (A) our Board of Directors approves in advance the person’s ownership of 15% or more of the shares or the business combination or (B) the business combination is approved by our stockholders by a vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares not owned by the acquiring person. When we were formed, the Klaassens and their respective affiliates and estates were exempted from this provision. Our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights agreement that could discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. We have a stockholder rights agreement that was adopted in April 2006, as amended in November 2008 and January 2010. The stockholder rights agreement may discourage a third party from making an unsolicited proposal to acquire us. Under the agreement, preferred stock purchase rights, which are attached to our common stock, generally will be triggered upon the acquisition, directly or indirectly through certain derivative positions, of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, except that stockholders who beneficially owned more than 10% of our stock as of November 19, 2008 were permitted to maintain their existing ownership positions without triggering the preferred stock purchase rights. In addition, we amended the agreement in January 2010 to permit FMR LLC to acquire up to 14.9% of our stock under certain circumstances without triggering the preferred stock purchase rights. If triggered, these rights would entitle our stockholders, other than the person triggering the rights, to purchase our common stock, and, under certain circumstances, the common stock of an acquirer, at a price equal to one-half the market value of our common stock. Our management has influence over matters requiring the approval of stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, the Klaassens beneficially owned approximately 10.5% of our outstanding common stock and our executive officers and directors as a group, including the Klaassens, beneficially owned approximately 12.7% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, the Klaassens and our other executive officers and directors have influence over matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including business combinations and the election of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 