Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the following information: Industry Factors U.S. and global economies have experienced a serious recession, unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, and significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S consumer and business economy, all of which present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation; the U.S. Government has responded to these circumstances with a variety of measures; there can be no assurance that these measures will successfully address these circumstances Commencing in 2007 and continuing throughout 2008 and 2009, adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and present challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation. These developments include a general recession both globally and in the U.S. and have contributed to substantial volatility in the financial markets. In response, various significant economic and monetary stimulus measures were enacted by the U.S. Congress. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of these measures. It cannot be predicted whether the U.S. governmental actions in the past two years will result in lasting improvement in financial and economic conditions affecting the U.S. banking industry and the U.S. economy. It also cannot be predicted whether and to what extent the efforts of the U.S. government to combat the recessionary conditions will continue. If, notwithstanding the government's fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to remain in a recessionary condition for an extended period, this would present additional significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for our company. In addition, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, we have not been eligible to participate in some federal programs such as the Department of Treasury's Capital Purchase Program and may not qualify for participation in future federal programs. Recently, certain sovereign borrowers have encountered difficulties in financing renewals of their indebtedness. If this trend continues or worsens, it could have adverse impacts on costs in the global debt markets which could increase funding costs for banks generally. 13 Table of Contents Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the U.S. banking industry Dramatic declines in the housing market in the U.S. in general, and in California in particular, during 2008 and continuing in 2009, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities and, more recently, residential, commercial real estate loans and small business and other commercial loans, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. These adverse economic conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in 2009. In addition, turbulent political and economic conditions in foreign countries have negatively impacted the U.S. financial markets and economy in general. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers and counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors. •We may not be able to accurately estimate credit exposure losses because the process we use to estimate these losses requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments with respect to predictions which may not be amenable to precise estimates, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. •Significant fluctuations in the prices of equity and fixed income securities could adversely impact the revenues of our asset management and trust business. Fees charged are based upon asset values, and declines in values proportionately reduce fees charged. •Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. •We may be required to incur goodwill impairment losses in future periods. See "Critical Accounting Estimates—Annual Goodwill Impairment Analysis." •We will likely be subject to increased FDIC deposit premiums which will increase our costs. The FDIC may also impose one or more special or emergency assessments and has required U.S. banks to prepay quarterly assessments due over the period from 2009 to 2012. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of recent FDIC actions relating to deposit assessments and to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Overview" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the recently-proposed "financial crisis responsibility fee" which could be imposed by the federal government on larger financial institutions to repay part of the cost of the government's support of the banking industry in 2008-2009. 14 Table of Contents The effects of changes of or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will continue and likely intensify in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Compliance with laws and regulations, especially new laws and regulations, increases our expenses and diverts management attention from our business operations. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to our ownership by BTMU, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain recently enacted and proposed laws and regulations that may affect our business. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the 15 Table of Contents future impact from current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowances because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers' ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowances. Continued volatility in fuel and energy costs could also adversely impact some borrowers' ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowances because of unexpected events. Any increase in the allowances would result in a charge to earnings. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers and decrease our revenue from other customers Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences. In response to the recent financial crisis, legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan "cram-downs," which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans including to reduce the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values. This could result in our writing down the value of our residential mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their lower loan values. There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults. Recent changes in federal rules have imposed new restrictions on banks' abilities to charge overdraft services and fees and can be expected to result in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the industry and Union Bank. See "Supervision and Regulation—Other Recent Developments." The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs and assumptions to estimate fair value. Because generally accepted accounting principles require fair value measurements to reflect appropriate adjustments for risks related to liquidity and the use of unobservable assumptions, we may recognize unrealized losses even if we believe that the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued adverse conditions in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our margin spread Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact and has in past years impacted our margin spread, that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. Recently, the banking industry has operated in an extremely low interest rate environment relative to historical averages. If a rising rate environment were to ensue, it could present new challenges for the industry and Union Bank. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, which may increase our funding costs and adversely affect our liquidity position Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments either with us or with external providers. In addition, our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not fully insured by the FDIC. While transaction accounts at FDIC-insured banks have been fully-guaranteed by the FDIC since October 2008, this guarantee expired as of December 31, 2009, unless individual banks elected to extend the guarantee, for an additional fee to the FDIC. Union Bank determined not to extend the guarantee as to its deposits. Those developments may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates or reduce fees to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. In addition, we have benefited from a "flight to quality" by consumers and businesses seeking the relative safety of bank deposits over the past two years. As interest rates rise from historically low levels during the current period, our newly acquired deposits may not be as stable or as interest rate insensitive as similar deposits may have been in the past, and as a recovery in the economy ensues, some existing or prospective deposit customers of banks generally, including Union Bank, may be inclined to pursue other investment alternatives. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California, Oregon and Washington, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources that are well in excess of ours. Competition in our 17 Table of Contents industry may further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, including in our principal markets resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions, which have grown rapidly in recent years. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements or new interpretations of existing standards emerge as standard industry practice. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. The continuing war on terrorism and overseas military conflicts could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. Company Factors Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, and could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a continued or further downturn in the residential real estate and housing industries in California could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolios in various ways, including by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors and are impacting the performance of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial portfolios. The commercial real estate industry in the U.S., and in California in particular, is being increasingly adversely impacted by the recessionary environment and lack of liquidity in the financial markets. The home building industry in California has been especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets. Poor economic conditions and financial access for commercial real estate developers and homebuilders could continue to adversely affect commercial property values, resulting in higher nonperforming assets and charge offs in this sector. Our commercial and industrial portfolio, and the communications/media industry, the retail industry, the energy industry and the technology industry in 18 Table of Contents particular, are also being impacted by recessionary market conditions. Continued volatility in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries. Conditions in the commercial real estate and commercial and industrial markets have led us to take additional provisions against credit losses in these portfolios, as to which we expect a higher level of charge offs during 2010. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business The government of the State of California currently faces economic and fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and fee income are generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector and the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties. Under the budget plan approved by the California Legislature and signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on February 20, 2009, the State of California reduced services, increased sales and income taxes and other fees and enacted other expense reduction measures. In addition, California funded a portion of the deficit through additional borrowings, which included registered warrants, a relatively high-cost form of financing. California voters did not approve ballot measures required to enact the budget during a special election held on May 19, 2009. The rejection of all of the revenue-related ballot measures resulted in budget deficits which were addressed, at least temporarily, in a California State Budget adopted on July 28, 2009. On January 8, 2010, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger submitted his proposed budget for the 2010 fiscal year. This budget provides for significant spending cuts to services, including healthcare, transportation and housing. The proposed budget also requires California to obtain $6.9 billion in federal funding. However, there have been no assurances from the federal government that such funds will be furnished to California. If such funds are not awarded, California may be forced to further cut state services or raise taxes or fees. If the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties continue or economic conditions in California decline further, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ As of November 4, 2008, BTMU, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MUFG, owned all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BTMU can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to BTMU or MUFG. A majority of our directors are independent of BTMU and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including BTMU. However, because of BTMU's control over the election of our directors, it could at any time change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. 19 Table of Contents The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, if BTMU and MUFG's credit ratings were to decline, this could adversely affect our credit ratings. BTMU and MUFG are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against BTMU or MUFG. Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of BTMU and MUFG regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of BTMU's risk management processes, BTMU manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of BTMU. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as BTMU. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including BTMU's aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain directors' and officers' ownership interests in MUFG's common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and BTMU could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and BTMU compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect us We have in the past, and may in the future, seek to expand our business by acquiring other businesses which we believe will enhance our business. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; continued growth; or the overall performance of the acquired company or combined entity. We also may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals and unexpected contingent liabilities can arise from the businesses we acquire. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly. If we are not able to integrate successfully past or future acquisitions, there is a risk that results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be successful in completing any acquisition or investment as this will depend on the 20 Table of Contents availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell or restructure a business. Any divestitures or restructurings may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and may involve additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divestiture or restructuring we might make. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and we do not control their actions. Among other services provided by these vendors, third-party vendors play a key role in the implementation of our integrated banking platform. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, implement our integrated banking platform and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, retain and successfully integrate skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. In the past few years, we have experienced significant turnover among members of management, primarily due to retirement. We must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we bring into the organization in order to achieve our operating objectives as new management becomes familiar with our business. In recent months, the federal bank regulators have published guidance relating to incentive compensation policies at insured depository institutions and a release seeking comment on whether the FDIC's risk-based deposit insurance assessment system should be changed to account for risks arising from employee compensation programs. Specifically, the FDIC has requested comment on whether a bank's compensation program should be a basis for adjusting the bank's FDIC assessment rate. It cannot be predicted whether these regulatory initiatives will result in definitive regulations or policies that will affect compensation at depository institutions, nor whether the effect of any such regulations or policies will be to make it more difficult for banks to attract and retain skilled personnel. 21 Table of Contents The challenging operating environment and current operational initiatives may strain our available resources There are an increasing number of matters in addition to our core operations which require our attention and resources. These matters include implementation of our integrated banking platform, adoption of the Basel II capital guidelines, various strategic initiatives, a disruptive economic environment, a challenging regulatory environment and integration of new employees, including key members of management. Our ability to execute our core operations and to implement other important initiatives may be adversely affected if our resources are insufficient or if we are unable to allocate available resources effectively. Significant legal or regulatory proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results The State of California requires us to file our franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes MUFG and either all worldwide affiliates or only U.S. affiliates. Prior to 2009, we elected to file our California franchise tax returns on a worldwide unitary basis. We intend to file our 2009 California tax return under a water's-edge election. If a water's-edge election is made, it will be effective as of April 1, 2009, and MUFG will be included in our California franchise tax return through March 31, 2009, MUFG's fiscal year-end. Increases or decreases in MUFG's taxable profits will increase or decrease our effective tax rate. We review MUFG's financial information on a quarterly basis to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to MUFG's later fiscal year-end. Our California effective tax rate can change during the calendar year, or between calendar years, as additional information becomes available. If we understate our tax obligations we could be subject to penalties. Our effective tax rates are also affected by valuation changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the tax authorities. Our credit ratings are important in order to maintain liquidity. Major credit rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of UnionBanCal Corporation and the securities and deposits of Union Bank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities and also of our short-term obligations are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current long-term and short-term ratings. If our long-term or short-term credit ratings suffer downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding 22 Table of Contents requirements, and decrease the number of commercial depositors, investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our ability to generate income. Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain a specified credit rating. If our credit rating were to fall below the specified rating, the counterparties to these derivative instruments could terminate the contract and demand immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization for those derivative instruments in net liability positions. Adverse changes in the credit ratings of our parent companies, BTMU and MUFG, could also adversely impact our credit ratings. We are subject to operational risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Segments." Operational risk includes execution risk related to operational initiatives, including implementation of our integrated banking platform, reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption "The effects of changes in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us." We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Failures in our internal control or operational systems could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as computer hacking or viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages or unexpected difficulties with the implementation of our integrated banking platform, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We generally fund our operations independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, negative public opinion could also result from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank, or BTMU or MUFG. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain lending and deposit customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action and increased liquidity risk. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit 23 Table of Contents ratings, which are important for some commercial deposit customers and also to our access to unsecured wholesale or other borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to our company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework's underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud On November 4, 2008, we became a privately held company pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 18, 2008, by and among UnionBanCal, BTMU and Blue Jackets, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of BTMU. All of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are now owned by MUFG through its wholly-owned subsidiary BTMU. As such, we would have been no longer required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); however, we have elected to voluntarily register our common stock under the Exchange Act and for so long as we maintain that registration in effect we will be required to continue to file such periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with a reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 