ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business Our product sales are tied to corporate spending and service-sector employment, which are outside of our control. Our sales and/or growth in sales would be adversely affected by a recessionary economy characterized by decreased corporate spending and service-sector employment. Our sales are significantly impacted by the level of corporate spending primarily in North America, which, in turn, is a function of the general economic environment. In a recessionary economy, service-sector employment, corporate cash flows and non-residential commercial construction decrease, which typically leads to a decrease in demand for office furniture. In addition, a recessionary economy may also result in saturation of the market by “just new” used office systems, leading to a decrease in demand. Sales of office systems, which have historically accounted for more than half of our revenues, represent longer term and higher cost investments for our clients. As a result, sales of office systems are more severely impacted by decreases in corporate spending than sales of seating, files and storage and casegoods, and demand for office systems typically takes longer to respond to an economic recovery. Geopolitical uncertainties, terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, increases in energy and other costs or combinations of such and other factors that are outside of our control could at any time have a significant effect on the North American economy, and, therefore, our business. The occurrence of any of these or similar events in the future could result in downward pressure on the economy, which we would expect to cause demand for our products to decline and competitive pricing pressures to increase. We may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our prices as a result of price competition, which could lower our profit margins. Our competitors may develop new product designs that give them an advantage over us in making future sales. Office furniture companies compete on the basis of, among other things, price and product design. Since our competitors offer products that are similar to ours, we face significant price competition from our competitors, which tends to intensify during an industry downturn. This price competition impacts our ability to implement price increases or, in some cases, such as during an industry downturn, maintain prices, which could lower our profit margins. Additionally, our competitors may develop new product designs that achieve a high level of customer acceptance, which could give them a competitive advantage over us in making future sales. Our efforts to introduce new products that meet customer and workplace requirements may not be successful, which could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline. To keep pace with workplace trends, such as changes in workplace design and increases in the use of technology, and with evolving regulatory and industry requirements, including environmental, health, safety and similar standards for the workplace and for product performance, we must periodically introduce new products. The introduction of new products requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. The design and engineering of certain of our new products can take up to a year or more, and further time may be required to achieve client acceptance. In addition, we may face difficulties in introducing new products if we cannot successfully align ourselves with independent architects and designers who are able to design, in a timely manner, high quality products consistent with our image. Accordingly, the launch of any particular product may be later or less successful than originally anticipated by us. Difficulties or delays in introducing new products or lack of customer acceptance of new products could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to retain our experienced management team or recruit other key personnel. The success of our operations is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of qualified executives in the industry in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of Andrew B. Cogan, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Cogan or other key members of our management team could seriously harm our efforts to successfully implement our business strategy. While we currently maintain key person life insurance policy with respect to Mr. Cogan, this insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for any harm to our business resulting from loss of his services. The inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could also affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We are dependent on the pricing and availability of raw materials and components, and price increases and unavailability of raw materials and components could lower sales, increase our cost of goods sold and reduce our profits and margins. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, which we purchase from outside sources. Steel, plastics and wood related materials are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products. The prices and availability of raw materials are subject to change or curtailment due to, among other things, the supply of, and demand for, such raw materials, changes in laws or regulations, including duties and tariffs, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by raw materials or component parts suppliers, changes in currency exchange rates and worldwide price levels. The price of steel and plastics, the latter of which is sensitive to the cost of oil, has significantly increased in recent years. To date, we have been successful in largely offsetting these recent price increases in raw materials through our global sourcing initiatives, primarily from China, Taiwan, Italy and Germany, through our continuous improvement programs and through price increases to our products. However, if the prices of these raw materials continue to increase, we may be unable to continue to offset any further increased costs and our profit margins could be negatively affected. Although no supplier is the only available source for a particular component or raw material, some of our products and components are extremely specialized and, therefore, it can take a significant amount of time and money to move from one supply source to another. In addition, contracts with most of our suppliers are short-term contracts. These suppliers may not continue to provide raw materials and components to us at attractive prices or at all, and we may not be able to obtain the raw material we need in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time frames we require. Moreover, we do not carry significant inventories of raw materials, components or finished goods that could mitigate an interruption or delay in the availability of raw materials and components. Any failure to obtain raw materials and components on a timely basis, or any significant delays or interruptions in the supply of raw materials or components, could prevent us from being able to manufacture products ordered by our clients in a timely fashion, which could have a negative impact on our reputation and our dealership network, and could cause our sales to decline. We are affected by the cost of energy and increases in energy prices could reduce our margins and profits. The profitability of our operations is sensitive to the cost of energy through our transportation costs, the cost of petroleum-based materials, like plastics, and the cost of operating our manufacturing facilities. Energy costs have increased in the recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. Although we have been successful in countering these recent energy price increases, primarily through our global sourcing initiatives and continuous improvement programs, we may not be able to continue to offset such costs at current price levels, or 13 Table of Contents if these prices continue to increase. If the price of petroleum-based products, the cost of operating our manufacturing facilities or our transportation costs continue to increase, it could have a negative impact on our gross margins and profitability. We rely upon independent furniture dealers, and a loss of a significant number of dealers could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a network of independent dealers for the joint marketing of our products to small and mid-sized accounts, and to assist us in the marketing of our products to large accounts. We also rely upon these dealers to provide a variety of important specification, installation and after-market services to our clients. Our dealers operate, generally, under one-year, non-exclusive agreements. There is nothing to prevent our dealers from terminating their relationships with us. In addition, individual dealers may not continue to be viable and profitable. If dealers go out of business or are restructured, we may suffer losses because they may not be able to pay us for furniture previously delivered to them. The loss of a dealer relationship could also negatively affect our ability to maintain market share in the affected geographic market and to compete for and service clients in that market until a new dealer relationship is established. Establishing a viable dealer in a market can take a significant amount of time and resources. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealer relationships could cause significant difficulties for us in marketing and distributing our products, resulting in a decline in our sales. One of our largest clients currently is the U.S. government, a relationship, which is subject to uncertain future funding levels and federal procurement laws and requires restrictive contract terms; any of these factors could curtail current or future business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 9.4% of our revenue from sales to various agencies and departments within the U.S. government. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain business with the U.S. government is highly dependent on cost-effective performance. Until recently, federal procurement laws required government agencies to purchase furniture products from Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated. If these or similar laws would be re-instituted, it would make it more difficult for us to sell our furniture to agencies and departments of the U.S. government. Our government business is also sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and U.S. government budgets. The U.S. government typically can terminate or modify its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and impede our ability to compete in the future for contracts and orders. Furthermore, if we were found to have committed fraud or certain criminal offenses, we could be suspended or debarred from all further government contracting. We operate with leverage, and a significant amount of cash will be required to service our indebtedness. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2007, we had total consolidated outstanding debt of approximately $368.6 million, which consisted of $368.0 million under our revolving credit facility and $0.6 million under local credit facilities maintained by our foreign subsidiaries. We also had $3.5 million outstanding commitments under letters of credit. Our existing revolving credit facility permits us to borrow up to $500.0 million. However, we are permitted to expand our revolving credit facility by an additional $200.0 million, subject to certain limitations and satisfaction of certain conditions, including compliance with certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2007, the total remaining credit available to us under our credit facility and those of our foreign subsidiaries was $138.1 million. If we were to borrow the maximum available to us under our credit 14 Table of Contents facility and those of our foreign subsidiaries, we would have total consolidated outstanding debt of approximately $506.7 million. The high level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our common stock, given that: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to fund scheduled payments of principal and debt service and will not be available for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions may be limited by the terms of our credit facility; and • the terms of our credit facility also impose other operating and financial restrictions on us, which could limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in our industry or in economic conditions generally. Our revolving credit facility prevents us and our subsidiaries from incurring any additional indebtedness other than (i) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility; (ii) certain types of indebtedness that may be incurred subject to aggregate dollar limitations identified in the credit facility, including, without limitation, purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations, indebtedness incurred in connection with a permitted acquisition, and loans obtained through an expansion of the facility, all of which cannot exceed $250.0 million at any time, and (iii) other types of indebtedness that are not limited to specific dollar limitations, such as indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business and unsecured, subordinated indebtedness. The aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may incur pursuant to these exceptions is further limited by the financial covenants in our revolving credit facility and, therefore, will depend on our future results of operations and cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, although we may incur unlimited amounts of certain types of indebtedness, subject to compliance with these financial covenants, the amount of indebtedness that we may actually be able to incur will depend on the terms on which such types of debt financing are available to us, if available at all. As a result of the foregoing, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise be considered beneficial to us. A breach of any of the covenants in our revolving credit facility could result in a default thereunder. If payments to the lenders under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets could be insufficient to repay in full the indebtedness under our credit facility and our other liabilities. Any such acceleration could also result in a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our subsidiaries’ assets, which would have a negative impact on the value of our common stock and jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including capital improvements, tooling and new product development. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a significant impact on our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights do not generally receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States. In some parts of the world, we have limited protections, if any, for our intellectual property. Our ability to compete effectively with our competitors 15 Table of Contents depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property. The degree of protection offered by the claims of the various patents, trademarks and service marks may not be broad enough to provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us, and patents, trademarks or service marks may not be issued on our pending or contemplated applications. In addition, not all of our products are covered by patents. It is also possible that our patents, trademarks and service marks may be challenged, invalidated, cancelled, narrowed or circumvented. In the past, certain of our products have been copied and sold by others. We try to enforce our intellectual property rights, but we have to make choices about where and how we pursue enforcement and where we seek and maintain patent protection. In many cases, the cost of enforcing our rights is substantial, and we may determine that the costs of enforcement outweigh the potential benefits. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property with respect to our significant current or proposed products, our competitors may be able to sell copies of our products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our original products and could also result in competitive pricing pressures, which may negatively affect or profitability. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liability and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue an infringing product. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may have filed for patent protection which is not, at the time of our evaluation, a matter of public knowledge. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights may not be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could (i) be expensive and time consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; or (iv) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. We could be required to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements. Violations of, and liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs or require us to change our business practices. Our past and present ownership and operation of manufacturing plants are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and inquiries relating to environmental matters and could become subject to fines or penalties related thereto. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require additional expenditures by us, some of which may be material. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, for remediation costs associated with waste disposal sites previously used by us. In general, CERCLA can impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault or the legality of disposal and, under certain circumstances, liability may be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages for harm to natural resources. The remediation costs and our allocated share at some of these CERCLA sites are unknown. We may also be subject to claims for personal injury or contribution relating to CERCLA sites. We reserve amounts for such matters when expenditures are probable and reasonably estimable. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to potential labor disruptions, which could have a significant impact on our business. Certain of our employees located in Grand Rapids, Michigan and Italy are represented by unions. The collective bargaining agreement for our Grand Rapids location expires August 27, 2011. We have also had sporadic, to date unsuccessful, attempts to unionize our other North American manufacturing locations and have experienced a number of brief work stoppages at our facilities in Italy as a result of national and local issues. While we believe that we have good relations with our workforce, we may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future, and further unionization efforts may be successful. Any prolonged work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our vendor relations and our dealership network. Moreover, because substantially all of our products are manufactured to order, we do not carry finished goods inventory that could mitigate the effects of a prolonged work stoppage. Our insurance may not adequately insulate us from expenses for product defects. We maintain product liability and other insurance coverage that we believe to be generally in accordance with industry practices, but our insurance coverage does not extend to field visits to repair, retrofit or replace defective products, or to product recalls. As a result, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully against substantial claims and costs that may arise from product defects, particularly if we have a large number of defective products that we must repair, retrofit, replace or recall. We may be vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our expenses. We primarily sell our products and report our financial results in U.S. dollars, but we generate some of our revenues and pay some of our expenses in other currencies. Paying our expenses in other currencies can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those expenses in U.S. dollar terms, which affects our profits. In the future, any foreign currency appreciation relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our expenses that are denominated in that currency. Additionally, as we report currency in the U.S. dollar, our financial position is affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar. The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Canadian dollar and the Euro. Approximately 12.3% of our revenues in 2007 and 38.5% of our cost of goods sold in 2007 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. From time to time we review our foreign currency exposure and evaluate whether we should enter into hedging transactions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business 17 Table of Contents combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Upon any change in control, the lenders under our revolving credit facility would have the right to require us to repay all of our outstanding obligations under the facility. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which may be unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • our inability to raise additional capital; • conditions of the office furniture industry as a result of changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the office furniture industry generally. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 18 Table of Contents 