Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this filing before deciding to purchase our common stock. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we may face. We believe that this filing contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to regulatory risks and clinical uncertainties. Such statements are based on management’s current e xpectations and are subject to facts that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. See Item 1. Description of Business – “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Liquidity We have reported net losses in the last nine fiscal years and may continue to report net losses in the future. There can be no assurance that our revenue will be maintained at the current level or increase in the future. Our future growth may depend on our ability to raise capital for acquisitions, to support research and development activities for modification of existing biomaterials and development of new biomaterials, including advanced applications for our biomaterials, and to market and sell our advanced biomaterials. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to, our results of operations; the progress of our research and development programs; the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any intellectual property rights; competing technological and market developments; changes in our development of commercialization activities and arrangements; and the purchase of additional facilities and capital equipment. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy If we cannot obtain the additional capital required to fund our operations on favorable terms or at all, we may have to delay or reconsider our growth strategy. Our growth strategy may require additional capital for, among other purposes, completing acquisitions of companies and customers’ product lines and manufacturing assets, integrating acquired companies and assets, acquiring new equipment and maintaining the condition of existing equipment. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, or if we desire to make additional acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing. Adequate financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance may dilute the share ownership of the existing investors. In addition, we may grant future investors rights that are superior t o those of our existing investors. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, selling assets or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or delaying plans for clinical trials. Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital to fund future growth and product development. Our business may be affected by the ongoing volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets, the general global economic recession, and other market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy. If economic conditions persist or deteriorate and our licensing and product revenue is insufficient to support our product development and growth strategies, then reduced liquidity in the capital markets may impair our ability to access capital on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits. -10- Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial operating losses and we may never be profitable. Our revenues were $2,117,000 and $3,265,000 for the years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We had net losses of $1,688,000 and $2,517,000 for the years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There is a risk that we will never be profitable. Our ability to generate enough revenues to achieve profits will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: · size of market; · competition and other solutions; · extent of patent and intellectual property protection afforded to our products; · demand for our advanced biomaterials by existing and potential developers of medical devices and both the time for development of devices by medical device developers and their success in obtaining regulatory approvals and commercialization of medical devices which incorporate our advanced biomaterials; · cost and availability of raw material and intermediate component supplies; · changes in governmental (including foreign governmental) initiatives and requirements; · changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; · costs associated with equipment development, repair and maintenance; and · our ability to manufacture and deliver products at prices that exceed our costs. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from period-to-period and may not be indicative of future results. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past from quarter to quarter and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · changing demand for our products and services; · the timing of actual customer orders and requests for product shipment and the accuracy of our customers’ forecasts of future production requirements; · the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of product orders and development and design services requested by customers; · difficulties in forecasting demand for our products and the planning and managing of inventory levels; · the introduction and market acceptance of our customers’ new products and changes in demand for our customers’ existing products; · changes in the relative portion of our revenue represented by our various products, services and customers, including the relative mix of our business across our target markets; · changes in competitive or economic conditions generally or in our customers’ markets; · competitive pressures on selling prices; · the amount and timing of costs associated with product warranties and returns; · changes in availability or costs of raw materials or supplies; · fluctuations in manufacturing yields and yield losses and availability of production capacity; · changes in our product distribution channels and the timeliness of receipt of distributor resale information; · the amount and timing of investments in research and development; · difficulties in integrating acquired assets and businesses into our operations; · charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting following acquisitions; and · pressure on our selling prices as a result of healthcare industry cost containment measures. As a result of these factors, many of which are difficult to control or predict, as well as the other risk factors discussed in this report, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. -11- The medical device industry is cyclical, and an industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. Business conditions in the medical device industry have rapidly changed between periods of strong and weak demand. The industry is characterized by: · periods of overcapacity and production shortages; · cyclical demand for products; · changes in product mix in response to changes in demand of products; · variations in manufacturing costs and yields; · rapid technological change and the introduction of new products by customers; · price erosion; and · expenditures for product development. These factors could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. The failure of our customers and potential customers, who utilize our advanced biomaterials in their medical devices, to complete development of their medical technology, obtain government approvals, including required FDA approvals, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could delay or limit introduction of their proposed products, thereby negatively impacting our ability to generate future revenues from product sales and royalty and development fees. Research, development and production activities undertaken by our customers and potential customers engaged in the development of medical devices which utilize our advanced biomaterials, are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA approval to market their medical devices utilizing our advanced biomaterials, our customers and potential customers will have to demonstrate that their medical devices are safe and effective on the patient population. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval of medical devices can take a number of years or longer to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. In order to be commercially viable, our customers and potential customers must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval, manufacture, market and distribute their medical devices. For each medical device incorporating our advanced biomaterials, our customers and potential customers must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones, including: · demonstrate benefit from the use of their medical devices in various contexts; · demonstrate through pre-clinical and clinical trials that their medical devices are safe and effective; and · establish a viable Good Manufacturing Process capable of potential scale up. The time frame necessary to achieve these developmental milestones may be long and uncertain, and our customers and potential customers may not successfully complete these milestones for any of their intended products in development. In order to conduct clinical trials that are necessary to obtain approval by the FDA to market a product, it is necessary to receive clearance from the FDA to conduct such clinical trials. The FDA can halt clinical trials at any time for safety reasons or because clinical investigators do not follow the FDA’s requirements for conducting clinical trials. If our customers or potential customers are unable to receive clearance to conduct clinical trials or the trials are halted by the FDA, we would not be able to achieve any revenue from the sale of biomaterials or royalty and development fees from our customers’ or potential customers’ products as it is illegal to sell any medical device for human consumption without FDA approval. -12- More generally, the manufacture and sale of medical devices, including products currently sold by our customers or potential customers and their other potential products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and corresponding state agencies, such as the CDHS. In order for them to market their products for clinical use in the United States, they must obtain clearance from the FDA of a 510(k) pre-market notification or PMA application. In addition, certain material changes to medical devices also are subject to FDA review and clearance or approval. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, frequently requiring from one to several years from the date of FDA submission if pre-market clearance or approval is obtained at all. Securing FDA clearances and approvals may require the submission of extensive clinical data and supporting information to the FDA. Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sales internationally may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ. There can be no assurance that our customers or potential customers will be able to obtain approval in a particular country for any of their future products. Regulatory clearances or approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such clearances or approvals, the FDA and certain foreign regulatory authorities impose numerous other requirements with which medical device manufacturers must comply. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the marketing of cleared or approved medical devices for uncleared or unapproved uses. In addition, product clearances or approvals could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. Our customers and potential customers will be required to adhere to applicable FDA GMP regulations and similar regulations in other countries, which include testing, control, and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements, including marketing products for unapproved uses, could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusa l of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of their products. There can be no assurance that our customers or potential customers will be able to obtain FDA 510(k) clearance or PMA for their products under development or other necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive U.S. or foreign clearances or approvals, the loss of previously obtained clearance or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business with respect of our ability to generate revenues from product sales to and royalty and development fees from our customers and potential customers utilizing our advanced biomaterials in their medical devices. Our markets are subject to technological change and our success depends on our ability to modify existing advanced biomaterials and develop and introduce new advanced biomaterials for use by customers and potential customers in their medical devices. The medical device market for our products is characterized by: · changing technologies; · changing customer needs; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; · increased integration with other functions; and · product obsolescence. -13- Our success is dependent in part on the modification of existing advanced biomaterials and the design and development of new advanced biomaterials for use in the medical device industry. To modify existing advanced biomaterials and develop new advanced biomaterials and designs for the medical device market, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. The product development process is time-consuming and costly, and there can be no assurance that product development will be successfully completed, that necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted by the FDA on a timely basis, or at all, or that the potential products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to modify exist ing advanced biomaterials, develop new advanced biomaterials, or successfully market existing and potential new advanced biomaterials; and the failure of our customers and potential customers in obtaining necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for medical devices using our advanced biomaterials, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on outside suppliers and subcontractors, and our production and reputation could be harmed if they are unable to meet our volume and quality requirements and alternative sources are not available. We have various “sole source” suppliers who supply key components for our products. Our outside suppliers may fail to develop and supply us with products and components on a timely basis, or may supply us with products and components that do not meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements. If any of these problems occur, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources of these products and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, which could harm our ability to: i) manufacture our own products and components profitably or on time, and ii) ship products to customers on time and generate revenues. In addition, if the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture products and components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alte rnative suppliers. During fiscal 2010, our sole supplier of a polymer component used in the manufacture of certain advanced polymers discontinued the sale of the polymer component. We have identified two (2) additional sources for this polymer component which we believe could be used as an alternative. We are currently performing qualification analysis so that the polymer component from the new sources could be substituted in our production process for advances polymers. We believe we have adequate supply of the original polymer component to meet production requirements during fiscal 2011 and have also begun using the alternative polymer component in our production. Although we believe the alternative polymer component will be suitable for our customer needs, there can be no assurance that our customers will a ccept the substitution of the alternative polymer component in certain of our advanced polymers. During the year ended March 31, 2010, two (2) vendors represented $100,000 and $80,000, or 42% and 34%, respectively, of material purchases used in the production process. During the year ended March 31, 2009, two (2) vendors represented $63,000 and $24,000, or 47% and 18%, respectively, of material purchases used in the production process. A significant portion of our royalty and development fee sales comes from one large customer, and any loss, cancellation or delay in sales to this customer could harm our operating results. A limited number of customers have, historically, accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, two customers represented 45% and 30% of revenues, respectively. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, one customer represented 81% of our revenue. Although we are working to expand our customer base, the medical device industry is concentrated, with relatively few companies accounting for a large percentage of sales in the surgical, interventional and cardiovascular markets that are targeted by our disposable medical device and contract manufacturing operations. Accordingly, our revenue and profitability are dependent on our relationships with a limited number of large medical device companies, and we expect that the majority of our revenues wi ll continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future, particularly if there is further consolidation within the medical device industry. We cannot assure you that there will not be a loss or reduction in business from our existing significant customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that revenues from our customers that have accounted for significant revenues in the past, either individually or as a group, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers or other existing customers. Because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, one or more of these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm ou r business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any negative developments in the business of our existing significant customers could result in significantly decreased sales to this customer, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. -14- Our ability to grow and sustain growth levels may be adversely affected by slowdowns in the U.S. economy. Due to the recent decrease in corporate profits, capital spending and consumer confidence, we have experienced weakness in certain of our end markets. We are primarily susceptible when customers stop placing orders for us to supply advanced biomaterials or when customers experience reduced sales of their medical devices for which we receive royalties on product sales. The medical commercial markets, including bio-medical research and development and medical device manufacturing, could be affected by the past and present slowdown in the U.S. economy. If the economic slowdown persists and capital spending for research and development from our customers decreases, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We could be harmed by litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights. None of our patents or other intellectual property rights has been successfully challenged to date. However, in the future, we could be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of other third parties. We also have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our products. No assurance can be provided that any future infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end users of our products resulting from infringement claims will not be asserted or that assertions of infringement, if proven to be true, will not harm our business. In the event of any adverse ruling in any intellectual property litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license from the third party claiming infringement with royalty payment obligations by us. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, is costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, we cannot assure you that any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Nor can we ass ure you that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design their products around any patents that may be issued to us. Our future success depends on the continued service of management, engineering and sales personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. There is intense competition for qualified employees in the medical industry, particularly for highly skilled design, applications, engineering and sales people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain technologists, managers, or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified individuals who could leave us at any time in the future. Our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our resources, and will likely require the addition of new management and engineering staff as well as the development of additional expertise by existing management employees. If we lose the services of or fail to recruit engineers or other technical and management personnel, our business could be harmed. Periods of rapid growth and expansion could place a significant strain on our resources, including our employee base. To manage our possible future growth effectively, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. In doing so, we will periodically implement new software and other systems that will affect our internal operations regionally or globally. -15- Future growth will also require us to successfully hire, train, motivate and manage our employees. In addition, our continued growth and the evolution of our business plan will require significant additional management, technical and administrative resources. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth and evolution of our current business. We are exposed to product liability and clinical and pre-clinical liability risks which could place a substantial financial burden on us, if we are sued. Although we have 5 million dollars in product liability insurance coverage, that amount may not be sufficient to cover all potential claims made against us. Additionally, we face the risk of financial exposure to product liability claims alleging that the use of devices that incorporate our products resulted in adverse effects. While we are not aware of any claim at this time, our business exposes us to potential product liability, recalls and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical products. We cannot assure you that such potential claims will not be asserted against us. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of medical products that our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these products by us or our potential collaborators may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against our potential liabilities. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any product liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently carry recall insurance and we may be subject to significant recall c osts in the event of a recall. We may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations in the United States related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of certain chemical materials such as isocyanates, alcohols, dimethylacetamide, and glycols used in our research and manufacturing process. Any of those regulations could require us to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If we incur substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Our failure to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. If we fail to implement new or improved internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may not be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. While we are expending significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404 and ou r management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2010, there is a risk that as we continue to implement our internal controls that we may identify previously unknown deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to implement required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations. Under current rules, we are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls for the year ended March 31, 2010. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls. -16- Risks Related to Competition The medical device industry, in general, is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid innovation and technological advances. Product differentiation and performance, client service, reliability, cost and ease of use are important competitive considerations in the medical device industry. We expect the current high levels of competition and technological change in the medical device industry in general. Most of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources. In addition, our competitors may have greater name recognition than us and frequently offer discounts as a competitive tactic. There can be no assurance that our current competitors or potential future competitor s will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than those that have been and are being developed by us or that would render our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive, or that such companies will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for, introducing or commercializing any such products prior to us. Any of the above competitive developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Pricing Pressure We face aggressive cost-containment pressures from governmental agencies and third party payors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain current prices in the face of continuing pricing pressures. Over time, the average price for our products may decline as the markets for these products become more competitive. Any material reduction in product prices could negatively affect our gross margin, necessitating a corresponding increase in unit sales to maintain net sales. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the past fiscal year, our stock price ranged from $0.13 to $0.51. The future market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly due to: · variations in our actual or expected quarterly operating results; · announcements or introductions of new products; · technological innovations by our competitors or development setbacks by us; · the commencement or adverse outcome of litigation; · changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or changes in analysts’ forecasts regarding our industry, competitors or customers; · announcements of acquisition or acquisition transactions; or · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many medical and biotechnology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in our industry, and could harm the market price of our common stock. -17- Additional authorized shares of our common stock and preferred stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market. We are authorized to issue 50,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2010, there were 21,278,386 shares of common stock issued and 21,201,694 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 31, 2010, there were 76,692 shares of treasury stock acquired through open market purchases during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. The total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of options and warrants. As of March 31, 2010, we had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 2,628,860 shares of our common stock, the exercise price of which range between $0.16 per share to $5.40 per share, and we have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potentia l exercise thereof. To the extent such options, warrants or additional investment rights are exercised; the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. Stockholders will also experience dilution upon the exercise of options granted under our stock option plans. In addition, in the event that any future financing or consideration for a future acquisition should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities investors will experience additional dilution. The exercise of the outstanding derivative securities will reduce the percentage of common stock held by our current stockholders. Further, the terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of the derivative securities may be adversely affected, and it should be expected that the holders of the derivative securities would exercise them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than those provided for by such derivative securities. As a result, any issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause our current stockholders to suffer significant dilution which may adversely affect the market. In addition to the above referenced shares of common stock which may be issued without stockholder approval, we have 5,000,000 shares of authorized pre ferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our Board, of which 500,000 preferred shares were previously issued, but none are currently outstanding. While we have no present plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock, our Board has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by our stockholders that are non-aff iliates that have satisfied a two year holding period. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. There is a limitation on director and officer liability. As permitted by Delaware law, our Restated Articles of Organization limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of our charter provision and Delaware law, stockholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents if such persons acted in good faith and reasoned that their conduct was in our best interest. -18- The anti-takeover provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization, the Delaware General Corporation Law and our Stockholder Rights Plan may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 4,500,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any acquisition, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction, without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of prefe rred stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stockholders must give substantial advance notice prior to the relevant meeting to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. In addition, our bylaws and Delaware law provide for staggered board members with each member elected for three years. In addition, directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and by a vote of 80% of the stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage any potential acquirer from acquiring more than 15% of our outstanding common stock since, upon this type of acquisition without approval of our board of directors, all other common stockholders will have the right to purchase a specified amount of common stock at a substantial discount from market price. Risk of Market Withdrawal or Product Recall There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully take corrective actions if required, nor can there be any assurance that any such corrective actions will not force us to incur significant costs. In addition, there can be no assurance any future recalls will not cause us to face increasing scrutiny from its customers, which could cause us to lose market share or incur substantial costs in order to maintain existing market share. We do not currently carry recall insurance and we may be subject to significant recall costs in the event of a recall. Risks Associated with Healthcare Reform Proposals Political, economical and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. Potential reforms proposed over the last several years have included mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending through limitations on the growth of private health insurance premiums and Medicare and Medicaid spending, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups and fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. In addition, some states in which we operate are also considering various healthcare reform proposals. We anticipate that federal and state governments will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methodologies and public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. & #160;Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us, and there can be no assurance that the adoption of reform proposals will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the actual announcement of reform proposals and the investment community’s reaction to such proposals, as well as announcements by competitors and third-party payors of their strategies to respond to such initiatives, could produce volatility in the trading and market price of our common stock. -19- Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 