Risk Factors, Item 2 – Properties, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), are forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “believes,” “intends,” “may,” “will,” “looks,” “should,” “could,” “anticipates,” “expects” or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know if these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, and we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) which include, but are not limited to: · the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry; · the performance of aerospace manufacturers and us under our long-term agreements; · the existence or renewal of certain long-term agreements; · the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products; · global economic and political conditions; · global productive capacity for titanium; · changes in product pricing and costs; · the impact of long-term contracts with vendors on our ability to reduce or increase supply; · the possibility of labor disruptions; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · fluctuations in the market price of marketable securities; · uncertainties associated with new product or new market development; · the availability of raw materials and services; · changes in raw material prices and other operating costs (including energy costs); · possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts; · competitive products and strategies; and · other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation was formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to “we”, “us” or “our” refer to TIMET and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. We are one of the world’s leading producers of titanium melted and mill products. We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the world’s principal markets for titanium consumption. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, and a major recycler of titanium scrap. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titanium’s unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated-temperature performance and high strength-to-weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications where these qualities satisfy essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium, other end-use applications for titanium in military and industrial markets have continued to develop, including the use of titanium-based alloys in armor plating, structural components, chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with diverse uses including oil and gas production installations, automotive, geothermal facilities and architectural applications. Our products include titanium sponge, melted products, mill products and industrial fabrications. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like us, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. Our long-term strategy is to maximize the value of our core aerospace business while expanding our presence in non-aerospace markets and developing new applications and products. In the near-term, we intend to continue to utilize our operating cash flow and capital resources to support increased levels of investment in the expansion of our productive capacity and the expansion of our secure third-party conversion capabilities in response to the industry’s long-term favorable demand trend. Opportunities to expand our existing production and conversion capacities will continue to be accomplished through internal expansion and long-term third-party arrangements, as well as potential joint ventures and acquisitions. 2 Titanium industry. We develop certain industry estimates based on our extensive experience within the titanium industry as well as information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). We estimate that we accounted for approximately 20% of 2006 and 16% of 2007 worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products and approximately 7% of 2006 and 6% of 2007 worldwide titanium sponge production. The following chart illustrates our estimates of aggregate industry mill product shipments over the past ten years: Mill Product Shipments by Industry Sector (Volumes Exclude Shipments within China and Russia) The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in the performance of most titanium product producers. Over the past 30 years, the titanium industry has had various cyclical peaks and troughs in mill product shipments. Since 1998, titanium mill product demand in the military, industrial and emerging market sectors has increased, primarily due to the continued development of innovative uses for titanium products in these other industries. Over the last several years we, and the industry as a whole, have experienced significantly increased demand. We estimate that industry shipments approximated 79,000 metric tons in 2006 and 89,000 metric tons in 2007, with each year setting a new industry shipment record, and we currently expect 2008 total industry mill product shipments to increase by approximately 4% to 12% as compared to the estimated 12% growth in 2007. Demand for titanium products within the commercial aerospace sector is derived from both jet engine components (e.g., blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and airframe components (e.g., bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners). The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, and our business cycle generally correlates to this timeline, although the actual timeline can vary considerably depending on the titanium product. We estimate that 2008 industry mill product shipments into the commercial aerospace sector will increase 6% to 12% from 2007. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 60% of our mill products to the commercial aerospace sector in 2007, whereas we estimate approximately 44% of the overall titanium industry’s mill products were shipped to the commercial aerospace sector in 2007 levels. 3 The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, traditionally issues worldwide forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July, approximately one-third of which is expected to be required by the U.S. over the next 20 years. The Airline Monitor’s most recently issued forecast (January 2008) estimates deliveries of large commercial aircraft (aircraft with over 100 seats) totaled 888 (including 191 twin aisle aircraft) in 2007, and the following table summarizes the forecasted deliveries of large commercial aircraft over the next five years: Forecasted deliveries % increase (decrease) over previous year Year Total Twin aisle Total Twin aisle 2008 1,005 217 13.2 % 13.6 % 2009 1,130 280 12.4 % 29.0 % 2010 1,220 370 8.0 % 32.1 % 2011 1,190 350 (2.5 )% (5.4 )% 2012 985 330 (17.2 )% (5.7 )% The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor reflects a 6% increase in forecasted deliveries over the next five years compared to the July 2007 forecast over the next five years, in large part due to the record level of new orders placed for Boeing and Airbus models over the past three years. Total order bookings for Boeing and Airbus in 2007 were 2,863 planes, a significant increase over the record bookings in 2005 and 55% higher than the bookings in 2006. The Airline Monitor forecasts aggregate new orders in 2008 will be lower than 2007, but the strong bookings in 2005 through 2007 have increased the order backlog for both Boeing and Airbus, which will be delivered over the next several years. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near-term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer-term horizon. The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor estimates Airbus’ firm order backlog at 904 twin aisle planes and 2,517 single aisle planes and Boeing’s firm order backlog at 1,351 twin aisle planes and 2,045 single aisle planes. Although The Airline Monitor’s latest forecast reflects a reduced near-term delivery forecast for the Boeing 787 commercial aircraft, Boeing has not yet quantified the overall impact of their recently announced delay. Twin aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 747, 767, 777 and 787 and Airbus A330, A340, A350 and A380) tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than single aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 737 and 757 and Airbus A318, A319 and A320), and newer models tend to use a higher percentage of titanium than older models. Additionally, Boeing generally uses a higher percentage of titanium in its airframes than Airbus. For example, based on information we receive from airframe and engine manufacturers and other industry sources, we estimate that approximately 59 metric tons, 45 metric tons and 18 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Boeing 777, 747 and 737, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. Based on these sources, we estimate that approximately 32 metric tons, 18 metric tons and 12 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Airbus A340, A330 and A320, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. At year-end 2007, a total of 189 firm orders had been placed for the Airbus A380, a program officially launched in 2000 with its first delivery in late-2007. Based on information we receive from airframe and engine manufacturers and other industry sources, we estimate that approximately 146 metric tons of titanium (120 metric tons for the airframe and 26 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each A380 manufactured. Additionally, at year-end 2007, a total of 817 firm orders have been placed for the Boeing 787, a program officially launched in April 2004 with anticipated first deliveries in 2009. Although the 787 will contain more composite materials than a typical Boeing aircraft, based on these sources, we estimate that approximately 134 metric tons of titanium (125 metric tons for the airframe and 9 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each 787 manufactured. We believe significant additional titanium will be required in the early years of 787 manufacturing until the program reaches maturity. Additionally, during 2006, Airbus officially launched the A350 XWB program, which is a major derivative of the Airbus A330, with first deliveries scheduled for 2012/2013. As of December 31, 2007, a total of 320 firm orders had been placed for the A350 XWB. These A350 XWBs will use composite materials and new engines similar to those used on the Boeing 787 and are expected to require significantly more titanium as compared with earlier Airbus models. Based on these sources, our preliminary estimates are that at least 74 metric tons (65 metric tons for the airframe and 9 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each A350 XWB manufactured. However, the final titanium buy weight may change as the A350 XWB is still in the design phase. Titanium shipments into the military sector are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titanium’s unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s after the end of the Cold War. In recent years, titanium has become an accepted use in ground combat vehicles as well as in naval vessels. The importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to continue to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities and global conflicts and to replace aging conventional armaments. Defense spending for most systems is expected to remain strong until at least 2010. Current and anticipated future military strategy leading to light armament and mobility favor the use of titanium due to light weight and improved ballistic performance. 4 As the strategic environment demands a greater need for global lift and mobility, the U.S. military needs more airlift capacity and capability. Airframe programs are expected to drive the military market demand for titanium through 2015. Several of today’s active U.S. military programs, including the C-17 and F-15, are currently expected to continue in production through the end of the current decade, while other programs, such as the F/A 18 and F-16, are expected to continue into the middle of the next decade. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. Production levels for the Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 are all forecasted to remain steady through the end of the decade. In addition to the established programs, newer U.S. programs offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A-22 Raptor was given full-rate production approval in April 2005. Additionally, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, now known as the Lightning II, is expected to enter low-rate initial production in late 2008, with delivery of the first production aircraft in 2010. Although no specific delivery patterns have been established, according to The Teal Group, a leading aerospace publication, procurement is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and may include as many as approximately 3,500 planes, including sales to foreign nations. Utilization of titanium on military ground combat vehicles for armor appliqué and integrated armor or structural components continues to gain acceptance within the military market segment. Titanium armor components provide the necessary ballistic performance while achieving a mission critical vehicle performance objective of reduced weight in new generation vehicles. In order to counteract increased threat levels globally, titanium is being utilized on vehicle upgrade programs in addition to new builds. Based on active programs, as well as programs currently under evaluation, we believe there will be additional usage of titanium on ground combat vehicles that will provide continued growth in the military market sector. In armor and armament, we sell plate and sheet products for fabrication into appliqué plate and reactive armor for protection of the entire ground combat vehicle as well as the vehicle’s primary structure. The number of end-use markets for titanium has continued to expand significantly. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Rapid growth of the Chinese and other Southeast Asian economies has brought unprecedented demand for titanium-intensive industrial equipment. In November 2005, we entered into a joint venture with XI'AN BAOTIMET VALINOX TUBES CO. LTD. (“BAOTIMET”) to produce welded titanium tubing in the Peoples Republic of China. BAOTIMET's production facilities are located in Xi'an, China, and production began in January 2007. Titanium continues to gain acceptance in many emerging market applications, including transportation, energy (including oil and gas) and architecture. Although titanium is often more expensive than other competing metals, over the entire life cycle of the application, we believe that titanium is a less expensive alternative due to its durability, longevity and overall environmental impact. In many cases customers also find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, design alternatives and other factors. The oil and gas market, a relatively new and potentially large growth area, utilizes titanium for down-hole casing, critical riser components, tapered stress joints, fire water systems and saltwater-cooling systems. Additionally, as offshore development of new oil and gas fields moves into the ultra deep-water depths and as geothermal energy production expands, market demand for titanium’s light-weight, high-strength and corrosion-resistance properties is creating new opportunities for the material. We have focused additional resources on development of alloys and production processes to promote the expansion of titanium use in this market and in other non-aerospace applications. Although we estimate that emerging market demand presently represents only about 6% of the 2007 total industry demand for titanium mill products, we believe emerging market demand, in the aggregate, could grow at double-digit rates over the next several years. We have ongoing initiatives to actively pursue and expand our presence in these markets. Products and operations. We are a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include: (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in titanium products; (ii) melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab), the result of melting titanium sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various alloys; (iii) mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe; and (iv) fabrications (spools, pipe fittings, manifolds, vessels, etc.) that are cut, formed, welded and assembled from titanium mill products. During the past three years, all of our net sales were generated by our integrated titanium operations (our “Titanium melted and mill products” segment), which is our only business segment. Business and geographic financial information is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal with a porous and sponge-like appearance. The first step in our sponge production involves the combination of titanium-containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and petroleum coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as co-products. Our titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada uses vacuum distillation process (“VDP”) technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in a chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the sponge mass is mechanically pushed out of the distillation vessel, sheared and crushed. The residual magnesium chloride, a by-product of the VDP process, is electrolytically separated and recycled. Melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab) are produced by melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with alloys, to produce various grades of titanium products suited for the ultimate application of the product. By introducing other alloys such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium, the melted titanium product is engineered to produce quality grades with varying combinations of certain physical attributes such as strength-to-weight ratio, corrosion-resistance and milling compatibility. Titanium ingot is a cylindrical solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 8 metric tons. Titanium slab is a rectangular solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 16 metric tons. The melting process for ingot and slab is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, we use our ingot and slab as the intermediate material for further processing into mill products. However, we also sell ingot, electrodes and slab to third parties. 5 Mill products are forged or rolled from our melted products (ingot or slab). Mill products include long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe. Our mill products can be further machined to meet customer specifications with respect to size and finish using specified grades of material. We send certain products to outside vendors for further processing (e.g., certain rolling, forging, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting and forging steps in France) before being shipped to customers. In France, our primary processor is also a partner in our 70%-owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. During 2006, we entered into a 20-year conversion services agreement with Haynes International, Inc., whereby Haynes will provide an annual output capacity of 4,500 metric tons of titanium mill rolling services at their facility in Kokomo, Indiana until 2026, with our option to increase the output capacity to 9,000 metric tons. Additionally, during 2007, we entered into a long-term agreement with Carpenter Technologies, Inc., whereby Carpenter is providing us dedicated annual forging capacity of 3,000 metric tons beginning in 2008 and increasing to 8,900 metric tons for 2011 through at least 2019. These agreements provide us with long-term secure sources for processing round and flat products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities, which allows us to assure our customers of our long-term ability to meet their needs. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, we perform extensive testing on our products. Sonic inspection as well as chemical and mechanical testing procedures are critical to ensuring that our products meet our customers’ high quality requirements, particularly in aerospace component production. We certify that our products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. Titanium scrap is a by-product of the forging, rolling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. Scrap by-product from our mill production processes is typically recycled and introduced into the melting process once the scrap is sorted and cleaned. Distribution. We sell our products through our own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. We also own eight service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which we use to sell our products on a just-in-time basis. The service centers primarily sell value-added and customized mill products, including bar, sheet, plate, tubing and strip. We believe our service centers provide a competitive advantage because of our ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium ingot, slab and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloys. The following table summarizes our 2007 raw material usage requirements in the production of our melted and mill products: Percentage of total raw material requirements Internally produced sponge 24% Purchased sponge 31% Titanium scrap 39% Alloys 6% Total 100% The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium-containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka. We purchase the majority of our supply of rutile ore from Australia. We believe the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and do not anticipate any interruptions of our rutile supplies. We currently obtain chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson. While we do not anticipate any chlorine supply problems, we have taken steps to mitigate this risk in the event of supply disruption, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable us to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow us to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge. In 2007, we completed an expansion of our existing premium-grade titanium sponge facility at our Henderson plant. This expansion increased our annual productive sponge capacity to approximately 12,600 metric tons, an increase of approximately 47% over the previous productive sponge capacity levels. During 2006 and 2007, other sponge producers also increased capacity and began construction on additional capacity expansion projects. However, we do not know the degree to which quality and cost of the sponge produced by our competitors will be comparable to the premium-grade sponge we produce in our Henderson facility. Because we cannot supply all of our needs for all grades of titanium sponge internally, we continue to purchase a portion of our raw material requirements from third parties. During 2007, we entered into new long-term sponge supply agreements that require us to make minimum annual purchases, including agreements with Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. and Ardor (UK) Ltd. (together with its Ust-Kamenogorsk titanium plant in Kazakhstan, collectively referred to as "UST"). In connection with our titanium sponge supply agreement with UST, we are also providing toll melting conversion services to UST. These long-term supply agreements, together with our current sponge production capacity in Henderson, provide us with a total annual available sponge supply at levels ranging from 18,000 metric tons up to 28,000 metric tons through 2024. These third-party agreements, in part, allowed us to indefinitely delay construction of an additional premium-grade titanium sponge facility. Titanium melted and mill products require varying grades of sponge and/or scrap depending on the customers’ specifications and expected end use. We will continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources in 2008, including those sources under existing supply agreements, and we will continue to evaluate sources of sponge supply. The titanium scrap we utilize for melted products is internally generated from our melted and mill product production processes, purchased from certain of our customers under contractual agreements or acquired in the open metals market. Such scrap consists of alloyed and commercially pure solids and turnings. Scrap obtained through customer arrangements provides a “closed-loop” arrangement resulting in certainty of supply and cost stability. Externally purchased scrap comes from a wide range of sources, including customers, collectors, processors and brokers. Due to our successful efforts to increase the volume of scrap obtained through “closed-loop” arrangements, we only purchased 20% to 30% of our scrap requirement from external suppliers in 2007. We expect our scrap purchases to remain at the same rate during 2008, despite the large increase in our scrap consumption during 2007 as our electron beam cold hearth (“EB”) melting activity increased. We also occasionally sell scrap, usually in a form or grade we cannot economically use in our production operations. 6 Overall market forces can significantly impact the supply or cost of externally produced scrap, as the amount of scrap generated in the supply chain varies during the titanium business cycles. Early in the titanium cycle, the demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to increase the scrap requirements for titanium manufacturers which precedes the increase in scrap generation by downstream customers and the supply chain. The pressure on scrap generation and the supply chain places upward pressure on the market price of scrap. The opposite situation occurs when demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to decline, resulting in greater availability of supply and downward pressure on the market price of scrap. During the middle of the cycle, scrap generation and consumption are in relative equilibrium, minimizing disruptions in supply or significant changes in the available supply and market prices for scrap. Increasing or decreasing cycles tend to cause significant changes in both the supply and market price of scrap. These supply chain dynamics result in selling prices for melted and mill products which tend to correspond with the changes in raw material costs. All of our major competitors also utilize scrap as a raw material in their melt operations. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in steel-making operations during production of interstitial-free steels, stainless steels and high-strength-low-alloy steels. Prices for all forms and grades of titanium scrap declined steadily during 2007, both for scrap used by titanium manufacturers and steel makers. Although demand from both sectors was strong during 2007, a combination of increased scrap generation by the titanium supply chain and increased sponge supply helped reduce scrap prices to levels experienced prior to 2005. Various alloys used in the production of titanium products are also available from a number of suppliers. The recent high level of global demand for steel products has also resulted in a significant increase in the costs for several alloys, such as vanadium and molybdenum. In 2007, the costs of these alloys remained above historical levels of the past 10 years but were below the cost peaks we experienced in the spring of 2005. Although availability is not expected to be a concern and we have negotiated certain price and cost protection with suppliers and customers, alloy costs may continue to fluctuate in the future. Customer agreements. We have long-term agreements (“LTAs”) with certain major customers, including, among others, The Boeing Company (“Boeing”), Rolls-Royce plc and its German and U.S. affiliates (“Rolls-Royce”), United Technologies Corporation (“UTC,” Pratt & Whitney and related companies), Société Nationale d΄Etude et de Construction de Moteurs d΄Aviation (“Snecma”), Wyman-Gordon Company (“Wyman-Gordon,” a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation (“PCC”)) and VALTIMET SAS. These agreements expire at various times through 2017, are subject to certain conditions and generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers’ titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments, (ii) formula-determined prices (including some elements based on market pricing) and (iii) price adjustments for certain raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. Generally, the LTAs require our service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. Certain provisions of these LTAs have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. Our 2007 sales revenues to customers under LTAs were 47% of our total sales revenues. In certain events of nonperformance by us or the customer, the LTAs may be terminated early. Although it is possible that some portion of the business would continue on a non-LTA basis, the termination of one or more of the LTAs could result in a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer, while providing us with a committed volume base throughout the titanium industry business cycles and certain mechanisms to adjust pricing for changes in certain cost elements. Markets and customer base. The following table summarizes our sales revenue by geographical location: Year ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to customers within: North America 56 % 59 % 58 % Europe 36 % 32 % 33 % Other 8 % 9 % 9 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Further information regarding our external sales, net income, long-lived assets and total assets can be found in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income and Notes 5 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantially all of our sales and operating income are derived from operations based in the U.S., the U.K., France and Italy. More than half of our sales revenue is from sales to the commercial aerospace sector. We have LTAs with several major aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls-Royce, UTC, Snecma and Wyman-Gordon. This concentration of customers may impact our overall exposure to credit and other risks, either positively or negatively, in that all of these customers may be similarly affected by the same economic or other conditions. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information: Year ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Ten largest customers 44 % 49 % 49 % Significant customers: PCC and PCC-related entities (1) 13 % 11 % 11 % Boeing (2) - - 10 % Customers under LTAs 47 % 39 % 47 % Significant customers under LTAs: Rolls-Royce (1) (2) 12 % - 12 % Boeing (2) - - 10 % (1) PCC and PCC-related entities serve as suppliers to Rolls-Royce. Certain sales we make directly to PCC and PCC-related entities also count towards, and are reflected in, the table above as sales to Rolls-Royce under the Rolls-Royce LTA. (2) Amounts excluded for periods when the revenue percentage is not at least 10%. 7 The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector consists of two major manufacturers of large commercial airframes, Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group (a unit of Boeing) and Airbus, as well as manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines including Rolls-Royce, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Pratt & Whitney and Snecma. We sell directly to these major manufacturers, as well as to companies (including forgers such as Wyman-Gordon) that use our titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. Approximately 57% of our sales revenue in both 2005 and 2006 and 55% of sales revenue in 2007 was generated by sales into the commercial aerospace sector. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and/or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The market for titanium in the military sector includes sales of melted and mill titanium products engineered for applications for military aircraft (both engines and airframes), armor and component parts, armor appliqué on ground combat vehicles and other integrated armor or structural components. We sell directly to many of the major manufacturers associated with military programs on a global basis. Approximately 12% in 2005, 15% in 2006 and 19% in 2007 of our sales revenue was generated by sales into the military sector. Outside of commercial aerospace and military sectors, we manufacture a wide range of products for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, automotive and power generation sectors. Approximately 16% in 2005, 17% in 2006 and 16% in 2007 of our sales revenue was generated by sales into industrial and emerging market sectors. In addition to melted and mill products, which are sold into all market sectors, we sell certain other products such as titanium fabrications, titanium scrap and titanium tetrachloride. Sales of these other products represented 15% of our sales revenue in 2005, 11% in 2006 and 10% in 2007. Our backlog has grown significantly from approximately $0.9 billion at December 31, 2005, to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 and to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2007. Over 87% of the 2007 year-end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2008. Our order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. We have explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. We will also continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique qualities. Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. Additionally, producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified to process titanium products. There are also several producers of titanium sponge in the world, at least four of which are currently in some stage of increasing sponge production capacity. We believe entry as a new producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment, substantial technical expertise and significant lead time. Our principal competitors in the aerospace titanium market are Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”) and RTI International Metals, Inc. (“RTI”), both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization (“VSMPO”), based in Russia. UNITI (a joint venture between ATI and VSMPO), RTI and certain Japanese producers are our principal competitors in the industrial and emerging markets. We compete primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers’ delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Prior to 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. were not significant, primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. To the extent we are able to take advantage of this situation by purchasing sponge from such countries for use in our own operations, the negative effect of these imports on us can be somewhat mitigated. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% “normal trade relations” tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). Because a significant portion of end-use products made from titanium products are ultimately exported, we, along with our principal competitors and many customers, actively utilize the duty-drawback mechanism to recover most of the tariff paid on imports. From time-to-time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future. The Japanese government has raised the elimination or harmonization of tariffs on titanium products, including titanium sponge, for consideration in multi-lateral trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization (the so-called “Doha Round”). As part of the Doha Round, the United States has proposed the staged elimination of all industrial tariffs, including those on titanium. The Japanese government has specifically asked that titanium in all its forms be included in the tariff elimination program. We have urged that no change be made to these tariffs, either on wrought or unwrought products. The negotiations are ongoing and are expected to continue during 2008. We will continue to resist efforts to eliminate duties on titanium products, although we may not be successful in these activities. Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge, ingot and mill products and thus our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 8 In 2006, legislation formerly known as the “Berry Amendment,” was re-enacted by Congress with minor changes. In general, the Berry Amendment requires that the United States Department of Defense (“DoD”) expend funds for products containing specialty metals, including titanium, that have been melted only in the United States. In 2007, the DoD adopted regulations implementing the revised law which reduced the effectiveness of the law. During 2007, progress was achieved to move toward a successful implementation of the revised specialty metals provision and legislation was enacted into law in early 2008 which is expected to solidify the effectiveness of the law. A weakening in the enforcement of the specialty metals clause could increase foreign competition for sales of titanium for defense products, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Research and development. Our research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of our products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development for emerging markets. In addition, we continue to work in partnership with the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA") and others to explore means to reduce the cost of titanium production. The work with DARPA complements our research, development and exploration of innovative technologies and improvements to the existing processes such as Vacuum Distillation of sponge and Vacuum Arc Remelting processes. We conduct the majority of our research and development activities at our Henderson Technical Laboratory in Henderson, with additional activities at our Witton, England facility. We incurred research and development costs of $3.2 million in 2005, $4.7 million in 2006 and $4.2 million in 2007. Patents and trademarks. We hold U.S. and non-U.S. patents applicable to certain of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technology, which expire at various times from 2007 through 2025 and we have certain other patent applications pending. We continually seek patent protection with respect to our technical base and have occasionally entered into cross-licensing arrangements with third parties. We believe the trademarks TIMET® and TIMETAL®, which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to our business. However, the majority of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technologies do not benefit from patent or other intellectual property protection. Employees. Our employee headcount varies due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on our business. Our employee headcount includes both our full and part-time employees. The increases in our headcount during 2006 and 2007 reflect the increase in demand for titanium products during those periods. The following table shows our approximate employee headcount at the end of the past 3 years: Employees at December 31, 2005 2006 2007 U.S. 1,450 1,545 1,670 Europe 790 835 860 Total 2,240 2,380 2,530 Our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and our production and maintenance workers in Henderson (approximately half of our total U.S. employees) are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2011, respectively. Employees at our other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our U.K. production and maintenance employees runs through December 2008, and our labor agreement with our U.K. managerial and professional employees runs through April 2008. Our labor agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. We currently consider our employee relations to be good. However, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Regulatory and environmental matters. Our operations are governed by various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We use and manufacture substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. We have used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of our operations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. It is possible that some, or all, of these risks could result in liabilities that would be material to our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. We believe our operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws. Our policy is to continually strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. We incurred capital expenditures related to health, safety and environmental compliance and improvement of approximately $25.1 million in 2005 (including $23.4 million related to the construction of a water conservation facility at our Henderson location), $2.0 million in 2006 and $3.0 million in 2007. From time to time, we may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties. However, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2007, Contran Corporation and other entities or persons related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 51.7% of our outstanding common stock. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 9 Available information. We maintain an Internet website at www.timet.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. Additionally, our (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and (iii) Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee and Nominations Committee charters are also available on our website. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report. We will provide these documents to shareholders upon request. Requests should be directed to the attention of our Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700, Dallas Texas 75240. The general public may read and copy any materials on file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor that could result in reduced earnings, liquidity or operating losses, could in turn adversely affect our ability to meet our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace industry, which represents a significant portion of our business, creates uncertainty regarding our future profitability. In addition, adverse changes to, or interruptions in, our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers could reduce our revenues. The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 60% of our mill products to commercial aerospace customers in 2007, whereas we estimate approximately 44% of the overall titanium industry’s mill products were shipped to commercial aerospace customers in 2007. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in the performance of most titanium product producers. Our product sales, including melted and mill products, to commercial aerospace customers accounted for 57% of our net sales for each of 2005 and 2006 and for 55% in 2007. Events that could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises or unforeseen reductions in orders from commercial airlines, could significantly decrease our results of operations and financial condition. Sales under LTAs with certain customers in the commercial aerospace sector account for a significant percentage of our annual sales revenue. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls-Royce, Snecma, UTC and Wyman-Gordon, under the LTAs we have with these customers, our sales could decrease substantially. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The global titanium markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, producers of metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities. Such facilities could be used or modified to process titanium mill products, which could lead to increased competition and decreased pricing for our titanium products. In addition, many factors, including the historical presence of excess capacity in the titanium industry, work to intensify the price competition for available business at low points in the business cycle. Our dependence upon certain critical raw materials that are subject to price and availability fluctuations could lead to increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers around the world, and principally on those located in Australia, for our supply of titanium-containing rutile ore, one of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge. While chlorine, another of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge, is generally widely available, we currently obtain our chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson. Also, we cannot supply all our needs for all grades of titanium sponge and scrap internally and are therefore dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of our raw material requirements. All of our major competitors utilize sponge and scrap as raw materials in their melt operations. Titanium scrap is also used in certain steel-making operations, and demand for these steel products, especially from China, has produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap. Purchase prices and availability of these critical materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. To help stabilize our supply of titanium sponge, we have entered into LTAs with certain sponge suppliers that contain fixed annual supply obligations. These LTAs also contain minimum annual purchase requirements. See “Business – Products and Operations – Raw materials,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Contractual commitments” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during the same period certain critical raw material costs including titanium sponge and scrap have been volatile. While we are able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of fluctuating raw material costs through LTAs with suppliers and customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations. 10 The rapid increase in titanium prices may cause our customers to look for alternatives to titanium in their products. Our average selling prices for melted and mill titanium have on average increased 50% and 28%, respectively, in each of the last two years as a result of a sharp increase in titanium demand that has exceeded industry expansion. If prices for titanium are sustained at this record level, new markets and application opportunities for titanium may diminish as the use of titanium becomes too costly for many manufacturers. In addition, manufacturers that currently use titanium for their products may look for less expensive alternatives for titanium in existing products and applications. If these events were to occur, our sales and operating results could decrease substantially, resulting in decreased profitability and our continued dependence on the military and commercial aerospace industries. We change prices on certain of our products from time-to-time. Our ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The benefits of any price increases may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. These factors have had, and may have, an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to develop new markets would result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace sector, and our operating results would, accordingly, remain cyclical. In an effort to reduce dependence on the commercial aerospace market and to increase participation in other markets, we have devoted certain resources to developing new markets and applications for our products. Developing these emerging market applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to the fact that titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. We may not be successful in developing new markets or applications for our products, significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Because we are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations, we may be required to remediate the environmental effects of our operations or take steps to modify our operations to comply with these laws and regulations, which could reduce our profitability. Various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations govern our operations. Throughout the history of our operations, we have used and manufactured, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. Some or all of these risks may result in liabilities that could reduce our profitability. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could decrease pricing for our products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% “normal trade relations” tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time-to-time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future, and we may not be successful in resisting efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products. See discussion of Doha Round in “Business – Competition.” We may be unable to reach or maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions representing a significant portion of our employees. Our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, and our production and maintenance workers in Henderson, are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2011, for the respective locations. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Each of our labor agreements with our U.K. employees expires in 2008, and the agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. A labor dispute or work stoppage could materially decrease our operating results. We may not succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace expiring agreements or to maintain satisfactory relations under existing collective bargaining agreements. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 ITEM 