Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks, some of which are set forth below to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses since inception, expect to incur additional losses in the future as we expand our development activities and may never achieve sustained revenues or profitability. Our only revenue to date has been collaboration revenue under our collaboration agreements with Pfizer and with Astellas. We have not completed development of any of our product candidates and do not expect that any of our present or future product candidates will be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur substantial additional losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to finance clinical and preclinical studies of our existing and potential future product candidates and our corporate overhead costs. Our operating losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. We do not know when or if we will ever generate any additional revenue, including any milestone payments, profit sharing payments or royalty payments under our collaboration agreements with Pfizer and Astellas, or become profitable because of the significant uncertainties with respect to our ability to generate product revenue from, and obtain approval from the FDA for, any of our current or future product candidates. Because we depend on financing from third parties for our operations, our business may fail if such financing becomes unavailable or is offered on commercially unreasonable terms. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of our debt and equity securities, and from up-front license payments and cost-sharing payments received pursuant to our collaborative arrangements with third parties. As of December 31, 2009 we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $278.2 million available to fund operations. Based upon our current expectations, we believe our capital resources at December 31, 2009 will be sufficient to fund our currently planned operations beyond the next twelve months. This estimate is based on a number of assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could exhaust our available cash reserves. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including without limitation: • whether Pfizer terminates our collaboration agreement, which it obtained the right to do at any time as a result of the negative results in the CONNECTION study; • whether any changes are made to the scope of our ongoing clinical development of dimebon as a result of the negative results in the CONNECTION study or other factors; • the scope and results of our and our corporate partners’ preclinical and clinical trials; • whether we experience delays in our preclinical and clinical development programs, including potential delays in or inability to recruit patients into our ongoing dimebon trials as a result of the negative results in the CONNECTION study, or slower than anticipated product development; 20 Table of Contents • whether opportunities to acquire additional product candidates arise and the costs of acquiring and developing those product candidates; • whether we are able to enter into additional third-party collaborative partnerships to develop and/or commercialize any of our product candidates on terms that are acceptable to us; • the timing and requirements of, and the costs involved in, conducting studies required to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies; • the availability of third parties to perform the key development tasks for our product candidates, including conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates to be tested in those studies and the associated costs of those services; • expenses associated with the pending and potential additional related purported securities class action lawsuits, as well as any unforeseen litigation; and • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending the validity of and enforcing, patent claims and other costs related to patent rights and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. We may not be able to obtain additional financing when we need it on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue developing our product candidates, acquire or develop additional product candidates or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. For these reasons, any inability to raise additional capital when we require it would seriously harm our business. Our business strategy depends on our ability to identify and acquire additional product candidates which we may never acquire or identify for reasons that may not be in our control, or are otherwise unforeseen or unforeseeable to us. A key component of our business strategy is to diversify our product development risk by identifying and acquiring new product opportunities for development. However, we may not be able to identify promising new technologies. In addition, the competition to acquire promising biomedical technologies is fierce, and many of our competitors are large, multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies with considerably more financial, development and commercialization resources and experience than we have. Thus, even if we succeed in identifying promising technologies, we may not be able to acquire rights to them on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to identify and acquire new technologies, we will be unable to diversify our product risk. We believe that any such failure would have a significant negative impact on our prospects because the risk of failure of any particular development program in the pharmaceutical field, including our ongoing dimebon and MDV3100 development programs, is high. Because we depend on our management to oversee the execution of development plans for our existing product candidates and to identify and acquire promising new product candidates, the loss of any of our executive officers would harm our business. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers. We are particularly dependent on the continued services of David Hung, M.D., our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors. Dr. Hung identified all of our existing product candidates for acquisition and has primary responsibility for identifying and evaluating other potential product candidates. We believe that Dr. Hung’s services in this capacity would be difficult to replace. None of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and they may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could delay the development of our existing product candidates and delay or preclude the identification and acquisition of new product candidates, either of which events could harm our business. Our reliance on third parties for the operation of our business may result in material delays, cost overruns and/or quality deficiencies in our development programs. We rely on outside vendors to perform key product development tasks, such as conducting preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing our product candidates at appropriate scale for preclinical and clinical trials and, in situations where we are unable to transfer those 21 Table of Contents responsibilities to a corporate partner, for commercial use as well. In order to manage our business successfully, we will need to identify, engage and properly manage qualified external vendors that will perform these development activities. For example, we need to monitor the activities of our vendors closely to ensure that they are performing their tasks correctly, on time, on budget and in compliance with strictly enforced regulatory standards. Our ability to identify and retain key vendors with the requisite knowledge is critical to our business and the failure to do so could negatively impact our business. Because all of our key vendors perform services for other clients in addition to us, we also need to ensure that they are appropriately prioritizing our projects. If we fail to manage our key vendors well, we could incur material delays, cost overruns or quality deficiencies in our development programs, as well as other material disruptions to our business. Risks Related to Our Product Development Candidates We are currently reassessing our future approach to the clinical development of our product candidate dimebon, which is currently in Phase 3 development for both Alzheimer’s and Huntington diseases. Because dimebon failed to meet any of its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in the CONNECTION study of dimebon for mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease, we and Pfizer have begun a comprehensive analysis of the data from the CONNECTION study to determine how it may impact our ongoing dimebon development program. In addition, based on the negative results of the CONNECTION study, Pfizer obtained the unilateral right to terminate the dimebon Collaboration Agreement between our companies. If we and Pfizer, or either of us individually, determine that future clinical development of dimebon should be curtailed or abandoned, our potential future milestone payments and potential future revenues from the potential commercialization of dimebon would be reduced or eliminated. Given the negative results in the CONNECTION trial, our existing dimebon clinical development plan, even if completed successfully, may be inadequate to obtain approval in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. In February 2008, the FDA expressed to us its view that our Russian Study could be used as one of the two pivotal registration studies required to support the approval of dimebon to treat mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease, so long as a significant proportion of the sites in the CONNECTION trial, which was designed to confirm the results of the Russian Study, were located in the United States. At the time of expressing that view, the FDA had not yet performed an in-depth review of the then-existing dimebon data, including the data from the Russian Study, so its views remained subject to change. While approximately 40% of the patients enrolled in the CONNECTION trial were from the United States, the trial failed in its objective of replicating the results of the Russian Study. Thus, even if we successfully complete other dimebon Alzheimer’s disease trials, the FDA may not accept the Russian Study as pivotal. Furthermore, even if the FDA does accept the Russian Study as pivotal, our dimebon development program includes only one other Phase 3 study in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease—the CONCERT study, which is evaluating dimebon in combination with Aricept, compared to Aricept alone, over a one-year treatment period. The FDA may conclude that those two studies together are inadequate to support the approval of dimebon to treat mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. Comparable regulatory agencies in other countries may reach similar conclusions. Were this to occur, we may never be able to obtain approval of dimebon to treat mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease, which constitutes the largest segment of the total Alzheimer’s disease market. Our product candidates require extensive, time-consuming and expensive preclinical and clinical testing to establish safety and efficacy. We may never attract additional partners for our technologies or receive marketing approval in any jurisdiction. The research and development of pharmaceuticals is an extremely risky industry. Only a small percentage of product candidates that enter the development process ever receive marketing approval. Except for dimebon’s approval in Russia as an antihistamine, which is not a commercially attractive opportunity for us, none of our product candidates is currently approved for sale anywhere in the world, and none of them may ever receive such approval. The process of conducting the preclinical and clinical testing required to establish safety and efficacy and obtain marketing approval is expensive and uncertain and takes many years. If we are unable to complete preclinical or clinical trials of any of our current or future product candidates, or if the results of these trials are not satisfactory to convince regulatory authorities or partners of their safety or efficacy, 22 Table of Contents we will not be able to obtain marketing approval or attract additional partners for those product candidates. Furthermore, even if we or our partners are able to obtain marketing approvals for any of our product candidates, those approvals may be for indications that are not as broad as desired or may contain other limitations that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from sales of those products. If this occurs, our business will be materially harmed and our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired. Positive results in the Russian Study were not predictive of results in the CONNECTION study, which was designed as a confirmatory study, and positive results seen in any of our other clinical trials, including our Phase 2 clinical trial of dimebon in Huntington disease and our Phase 1-2 clinical trial of MDV3100 in CRPC, may not be predictive of future clinical trial results. The CONNECTION study was designed expressly to replicate the positive results seen in the Russian Study but failed to do so. As evidenced by this example, even where we achieve positive results in clinical trials, subsequent clinical trials may fail, even if those subsequent trials are designed very similarly to their predecessors. Accordingly, despite the positive results seen in our Phase 2 clinical trial of dimebon in Huntington disease, our ongoing Phase 3 HORIZON trial of dimebon in Huntington disease may fail, and despite the positive results seen to date in our Phase 1-2 trial of MDV3100 in CRPC, our ongoing Phase 3 AFFIRM trial of MDV3100 in CRPC may fail. In addition, despite the positive results seen in our Russian Study, any or all of our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials in Alzheimer’s disease may fail. Product candidates in clinical trials, including Phase 3 clinical trials, often fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed successfully through prior stages of preclinical and clinical testing. In addition, we do not know whether interim results from any of our ongoing clinical trials, including the results to date in our Phase 1-2 clinical trial of MDV3100 in CRPC, will be predictive of final results of any such trial. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationships with Pfizer and Astellas to further develop, manufacture and commercialize dimebon and MDV3100, respectively. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Pfizer’s or Astellas’ ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, or give rise to Pfizer’s or Astellas’ ability to terminate our agreements with each of them. In September 2008, we announced that we had entered into a collaboration agreement with Pfizer for the development, manufacture and commercialization of dimebon to treat Alzheimer’s disease and Huntington disease. Under the agreement, Pfizer is responsible for development and seeking regulatory approval for, and commercialization of, dimebon outside the United States and is responsible globally for all manufacture of product for both clinical and commercial purposes. In the United States, we and Pfizer are responsible for jointly developing and commercializing dimebon, and we will share the costs, profits and losses on a 60%/40% basis, with Pfizer assuming the larger share. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer has the unilateral right to terminate the agreement at any time based on the negative results of the CONNECTION trial. In October 2009, we announced that we had entered into a collaboration agreement with Astellas for the development, manufacture and commercialization of MDV3100 to treat prostate cancer. Under the agreement, Astellas is responsible for developing, seeking regulatory approval for, and commercializing MDV3100 outside the United States and, following a transition period, is responsible globally for all manufacture of product for both clinical and commercial purposes. We and Astellas are jointly responsible for developing, seeking regulatory approval for, and commercializing MDV3100 in the United States. We and Astellas will share equally the costs, profits and losses arising from development and commercialization of MDV3100 in the United States. For clinical trials useful both in the United States and in Europe or Japan, including the ongoing Phase 3 AFFIRM trial, we will be responsible for one-third of the total costs and Astellas will be responsible for the remaining two-thirds. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationships with Pfizer and Astellas, including: • the rights of Pfizer or Astellas to terminate the respective collaboration agreement with us on limited notice for convenience (subject to certain limitations in the case of Astellas), or for other reasons specified in the respective collaboration agreements; • the need for us to identify and secure on commercially reasonable terms the services of third parties to perform key activities currently performed by Pfizer and Astellas in the event that either or both of our 23 Table of Contents partners were to terminate their collaborations with us, including clinical and commercial manufacturing, development activities outside of the United States and commercialization activities globally; • adverse decisions by Pfizer or Astellas regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of dimebon or MDV3100, respectively; • possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • changes in key management personnel that are members of each collaboration’s various committees; and • possible disagreements with Pfizer or Astellas, including those regarding the development and/or commercialization of products, interpretation of the collaboration agreement and ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Pfizer or Astellas, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If Pfizer or Astellas were to unilaterally terminate our collaborative relationship, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities for dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, solely at our own expense and/or seek another partner for some or all of these activities, worldwide. If we pursued these activities on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, might limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing dimebon and MDV3100. If we sought to find another pharmaceutical company partner for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in a collaboration that has us expending greater funds and efforts than our current relationships with Pfizer and Astellas. We are dependent on the efforts of, and funding by, Pfizer and Astellas for the development of dimebon and MDV3100, respectively. Under the terms of both the Pfizer collaboration agreement and the Astellas collaboration agreement, we and each of Pfizer and Astellas must agree on any changes to the development plan for dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, that is set forth in each agreement. If we and Pfizer or we and Astellas cannot agree on any such changes, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Pfizer is free to terminate our collaboration agreement at its discretion on limited notice to us. If Pfizer terminates its co-funding of dimebon development, we may be unable to fund the development and commercialization costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could cause our business to fail. If Pfizer does not exercise its right to terminate our collaboration agreement and desires to change the development plan for dimebon, we may be asked to agree to a revised development plan that does not prioritize the development of dimebon for Alzheimer’s disease or Huntington disease in order to continue receiving funding from Pfizer for the development and commercialization of dimebon. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Astellas Collaboration Agreement, Astellas is generally free to terminate the Astellas agreement at its discretion on limited notice to us. If Astellas terminates its co-funding of MDV3100 commercialization, we may be unable to fund the development and commercialization costs on our own and may be unable to find another partner, which could cause our business to fail. Similarly, in the event of an uncured material breach of the Astellas agreement by us, Astellas may elect to terminate the agreement, in which case all rights to develop and commercialize MDV3100 will revert to us. We may be unable to fund the continued development and commercialization of MDV3100 on our own and may be unable to find another partner, which could cause our business to fail. In the event of an uncured material breach of the Pfizer agreement by us, Pfizer may elect either to terminate the agreement or to keep the agreement in place, but terminate our right to participate in development, commercialization (other than co-promoting dimebon, which right Pfizer may terminate only if our uncured material breach pertains to our exercise of that right) and other activities for dimebon, including the joint committees and decision making for dimebon. If Pfizer terminates our right to participate in such activities, we 24 Table of Contents would be entirely dependent on Pfizer’s actions with respect to the development and commercialization of dimebon. In addition, under the Pfizer agreement, Pfizer is solely responsible for the development and regulatory approval of dimebon outside the United States, so we are entirely dependent on Pfizer for the successful completion of those activities. Similarly, under the Astellas agreement, Astellas is solely responsible for the development and regulatory approval of MDV3100 outside the United States, so we are entirely dependent on Astellas for the successful completion of those activities. The financial returns to us, if any, under our collaboration agreements with Pfizer and Astellas depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones, plus a share of any profits from any product sales in the United States and royalties on any product sales outside of the United States. Therefore, our success, and any associated financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in large part on the performance of Pfizer and Astellas under each respective agreement. If Pfizer or Astellas fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected for that reason. We are dependent on the efforts of Pfizer and Astellas to market and promote dimebon and MDV3100, respectively. Under our collaboration with Pfizer, we and Pfizer have the right to co-promote dimebon to specialty physicians in the United States and Pfizer has the sole right to promote dimebon to primary care physicians in the United States. Outside the United States, Pfizer has the sole right to promote dimebon. We are thus solely dependent on Pfizer to successfully promote dimebon to primary care physicians in the United States and to all customers outside of the United States and are partially dependent on Pfizer to successfully promote dimebon to specialty physicians in the United States. Under our collaboration with Astellas, we and Astellas have the right to co-promote MDV3100 to all customers in the United States, and Astellas has the sole right to promote MDV3100 to all customers outside of the United States. We are thus partially dependent on Astellas to successfully promote MDV3100 in the United States and solely dependent on Astellas to successfully promote MDV3100 to all customers outside of the United States. We have limited ability to direct Pfizer or Astellas in its commercialization of dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, in any country, including the United States. If Pfizer or Astellas fail to adequately market and promote dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, whether inside or outside of the United States, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Pfizer or Astellas. If this were to happen, sales of dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We are dependent on Pfizer and Astellas to manufacture clinical and commercial requirements of dimebon and MDV3100, respectively, which could result in the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval or lost sales. Under both of our agreements with each of Pfizer and Astellas, after a transition period, Pfizer and Astellas have the primary right and responsibility to supply dimebon and MDV3100, respectively, for clinical trials and all commercial requirements. We transitioned substantially all of the manufacturing obligations for dimebon to Pfizer in 2009, and are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing obligations for MDV3100 to Astellas. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on Pfizer and Astellas to manufacture dimebon and MDV3100, respectively. In the event that Pfizer terminates the dimebon collaboration, at our request it will supply us with dimebon for clinical and commercial use for a reasonable period of time not to exceed eighteen months following its notice of termination, on terms to be negotiated by the parties in good faith. Pfizer or Astellas may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, and shortage of qualified personnel. Pfizer or Astellas may not perform as agreed or may default in their obligations to supply clinical trial supplies and/or commercial product. Pfizer or Astellas may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis. Any such failure by Pfizer or Astellas could delay our future clinical trials and our applications for regulatory approval, or could impair our ability to meet the market demand for dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, and therefore result in decreased sales. If Pfizer or Astellas does not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses, delays, or both, to arrange for other third parties to manufacture products on our behalf, as we do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities. 25 Table of Contents If Pfizer’s or Astellas’ business strategies change, any such changes may adversely affect our collaborative relationships with each party. Either Pfizer or Astellas may change its business strategy. Decisions by either Pfizer or Astellas to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the Alzheimer’s field or prostate cancer field, respectively, to emphasize other competitive agents currently in its portfolio at the expense of dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, or to add additional competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentives to continue to develop, seek regulatory approval for, or commercialize dimebon or MDV3100, respectively. For example, in October 2009 Pfizer completed its acquisition of Wyeth, which is co-developing an Alzheimer’s disease product candidate that, like dimebon, is currently in Phase 3 development. A change in Pfizer’s business strategy as a result of the Wyeth acquisition or for other reasons, including the negative results of the CONNECTION study, may adversely affect activities under our collaboration agreement with Pfizer, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. In addition, Astellas has partnered with us based in part on Astellas’ desire to use MDV3100 as a component of building a global oncology franchise, which Astellas presently does not have. If Astellas’ strategic objective of building a global oncology franchise were to change, such change could negatively impact any commercial prospects of MDV3100. Our industry is highly regulated by the FDA, and comparable foreign regulatory agencies. We must comply with extensive, strictly enforced regulatory requirements in order to develop and obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Before we, Pfizer, Astellas or our potential future partners can obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, our product candidates must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. The preclinical and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulation by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. We will be required to obtain and maintain an effective investigational new drug application to commence human clinical trials in the United States and must obtain and maintain additional regulatory approvals before proceeding to successive phases of our clinical trials. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy for its intended use. It takes years to complete the testing of a new drug or medical device and development delays and/or failure can occur at any stage of testing. Any of our present and future clinical trials may be delayed or halted due to any of the following: • any preclinical test or clinical trial may fail to produce safety and efficacy results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical trial, such as the negative results from the CONNECTION trial reported in March 2010, or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are ongoing or have been completed and were successful; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; • the FDA might not approve the clinical processes or facilities that we utilize, or the processes or facilities of our consultants, including without limitation the vendors who will be manufacturing drug substance and drug product for us or any potential collaborators; • any regulatory approval we, Pfizer, Astellas or any potential future collaborators ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in FDA policies or the policies of foreign regulatory authorities during the period in which we develop a product candidate or the period required for review of any final regulatory approval before we are able to market our product candidates. 26 Table of Contents Enrollment and retention of patients in clinical trials is often an expensive and time-consuming process, could be made more difficult or rendered impossible by multiple factors outside our control, including the negative results from the CONNECTION trial reported in March 2010 and the potential availability of competing drugs for the treatment of CRPC, and could result in significant delays, cost overruns, or both, in our product development activities, or could result in the failure of such activities. We may encounter delays in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials, and the negative results of the CONNECTION study may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in other dimebon clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the existing body of safety and efficacy data with respect to the study drug, the number and nature of ongoing clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. For example, to be successful in our ongoing Phase 3 AFFIRM study of MDV3100 in castration-resistant prostate cancer, MDV3100 must demonstrate a statistically significant difference in survival between MDV3100-treated and placebo-treated patients. If one or more other treatments for castration-resistant prostate cancer becomes available, either commercially or on a compassionate use basis, before completion of the AFFIRM trial, patients could elect to leave our trial and switch to an alternative treatment. The survival of these patients continues to be included in the analysis of the AFFIRM trial despite the fact that they have dropped out. Thus, use of other treatments by these patients could make it more difficult for the AFFIRM trial to succeed if such treatments prolong survival. Furthermore, because patients in the AFFIRM trial have a one-third chance of being randomized to placebo, the availability of competing treatments may make it more difficult, or impossible, to complete enrollment in our trial. Such potential competing treatments include an investigational chemotherapy drug from sanofi-aventis which demonstrated an overall survival benefit in a Phase 3 CRPC trial reported in March 2010 a prostate cancer vaccine from Dendreon which demonstrated an overall survival benefit in CRPC patients and has an application for approval pending with the FDA, and an investigational hormonal drug from Johnson & Johnson which, like MDV3100, operates through the androgen receptor pathway and is ahead of MDV3100 in clinical development. Delays or failures in planned patient enrollment and/or retention may result in increased costs, program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop dimebon, MDV3100 or any other product candidates, or could render further development impossible. If our product candidates cannot be manufactured in a cost-effective manner and in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulatory standards, they will not be commercially successful. All pharmaceutical and medical device products in the United States, Europe and other countries must be manufactured in strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other applicable regulatory standards. Establishing a cGMP-compliant process to manufacture pharmaceutical and medical device products involves significant time, cost and uncertainty. Furthermore, in order to be commercially viable, any such process would have to yield product on a cost-effective basis, using raw materials that are commercially available on acceptable terms. We face the risk that our contract manufacturers may have interruptions in raw material supplies, be unable to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements, or for other reasons beyond their or our control, be unable to complete their manufacturing responsibilities on time, on budget, or at all. Under our collaboration agreements with Pfizer and Astellas, Pfizer and Astellas are responsible for all manufacture of dimebon and MDV3100, respectively, for commercial purposes, but we cannot guarantee that either Pfizer or Astellas will be able to manufacture dimebon or MDV3100, respectively, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, neither dimebon nor MDV3100 has been manufactured at commercial-scale under cGMP- compliant conditions. In the event that Pfizer elects to terminate our dimebon collaboration agreement, following a period of transition assistance from Pfizer, we will be responsible for manufacturing dimebon or finding a different third party to manufacture dimebon and neither we nor any other third party have experience manufacturing dimebon at commercial scale under cGMP-compliant conditions. We thus cannot guarantee that commercial-scale cGMP manufacture of dimebon and/or MDV3100 will be possible, on a cost-effective basis or at all, which would materially and adversely affect the value of these programs. Any of our product development candidates that receive marketing approval will face significant competition from other approved products, including generic products and products with more convenient 27 Table of Contents dosing regimens, and other products in development. The biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive in general. Furthermore, our business strategy is to target large unmet medical needs, and those markets are even more highly competitive. For example, there are four branded drugs and one generic drug currently marketed to treat Alzheimer’s disease. These drugs are all dosed once or twice per day, while dimebon dosing is three times daily in all of our completed and ongoing Alzheimer’s disease and Huntington disease clinical trials. This difference in dosing regimen may make dimebon less competitive than alternative drugs if dimebon receives marketing approval based on a thrice per day dosing regimen. In addition, one of the four branded Alzheimer’s disease drugs has already lost patent protection, and the other three branded drugs are expected to lose patent protection between 2010 and 2015. Such loss of patent protection typically results in the entry of generic competition for, and significant reductions in the commercial pricing of, those approved drugs. A generic version of one Alzheimer’s disease drug received FDA marketing approval in 2008. This development would put significant competitive pressure on the prices we or our potential partners could charge for dimebon should it ever be approved. Companies marketing currently approved Alzheimer’s disease therapeutics include some of the world’s largest and most experienced pharmaceutical companies, such as Novartis AG and Johnson & Johnson. Pfizer also already markets a currently approved Alzheimer’s disease drug. In addition, in October 2009 Pfizer merged with Wyeth, which is co-developing an Alzheimer’s disease product candidate that, like dimebon, is currently in Phase 3 development. There are also dozens of additional small molecule and recombinant protein candidates in development targeting the clinical indications we are pursuing, particularly Alzheimer’s disease and CRPC, including compounds already in Phase 3 clinical trials. One or more such compounds may be approved in each of our target indications before any of our product candidates could potentially be approved, including an investigational chemotherapy drug from sanofi-aventis which demonstrated an overall survival benefit in a Phase 3 CRPC trial reported in March 2010, a prostate cancer vaccine from Dendreon which demonstrated an overall survival benefit in CRPC patients and has an application for approval pending with the FDA, and an investigational hormonal drug from Johnson & Johnson which, like MDV3100, operates through the androgen receptor pathway and is ahead of MDV3100 in clinical development. Most, if not all, of these competing drug development programs are being conducted by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with considerably greater financial resources, human resources and experience than ours. Any of our product candidates that receives regulatory approval will face significant competition from both approved drugs and from any of the drugs currently under development that may subsequently be approved. Bases upon which our product candidates would have to compete successfully include efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness. Even if dimebon were ever to receive marketing approval, the negative results from the CONNECTION trial could be included in the product label, which could negatively affect dimebon’s ability to compete. In addition, our product candidates would have to compete against these other drugs with several different categories of decision makers, including physicians, patients, government and private third-party payors, technology assessment groups and patient advocacy organizations. Even if one of our product candidates is approved, we cannot guarantee that we, Pfizer, Astellas or any of our potential future partners will be able to compete successfully on any of these bases. Any future product candidates that we may subsequently acquire will face similar competitive pressures. If we or our partners cannot compete successfully on any of the bases described above, our business will not succeed. Any of our product candidates that is eventually approved for sale may not be commercially successful if not widely-covered and appropriately reimbursed by third-party payors. Third-party payors, including public insurers such as Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers, pay for a large share of health care products and services consumed in the United States. In Europe, Canada and other major international markets, third-party payors also pay for a significant portion of health care products and services and many of those countries have nationalized health care systems in which the government pays for all such products and services and must approve product pricing. Even if approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, our product candidates are unlikely to achieve commercial success unless they are covered widely by third-party payors and reimbursed at a rate which generates an acceptable commercial return for us and any collaborative partner. It is increasingly difficult to obtain coverage and acceptable reimbursement levels from third-party payors and we may be unable to achieve these objectives. Achieving coverage and acceptable reimbursement levels typically involves negotiating with individual payors and is a time-consuming and costly process. In addition, we would face competition in such negotiations from other approved drugs against which we compete, which may include other 28 Table of Contents approved drugs marketed by Pfizer or Astellas, and the marketers of such other drugs are likely to be significantly larger than us and therefore enjoy significantly more negotiating leverage with respect to the individual payors than we may have. The competition for coverage and reimbursement level with individual payors will be particularly intense for dimebon, if approved to treat Alzheimer’s disease, because all four currently marketed Alzheimer’s disease drugs are expected to lose patent protection prior to, or shortly following, dimebon’s potential commercial launch, and thus are likely to be available at generic price levels that are more attractive to individual payors. One such drug already has lost patent protection and a generic version is on the market. Our commercial prospects would be further weakened if payors approved coverage for our product candidates only as second- or later-line treatments, or if they placed any of our product candidates in tiers requiring unacceptably high patient co-payments. Failure to achieve acceptable coverage and reimbursement levels could materially harm our or our partner’s ability to successfully market our product candidates. We may be subject to product liability or other litigation, which could result in an inefficient allocation of our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy and, if successful, materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition as a result of the costs of liabilities that may be imposed thereby. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. If any of our product candidates harms people, or is alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, corporate partners or others. We have product liability insurance covering our ongoing clinical trials, but do not have insurance for any of our other development activities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant litigation costs and liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for injuries allegedly caused by any of our product candidates, our litigation costs and liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. In addition, we may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Any litigation to which we are subject, including the purported securities class action lawsuit described in the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation that may arise from time to time may adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Intellectual property protection for our product candidates is crucial to our business, and is subject to a significant degree of legal risk—particularly in the life sciences industry. The success of our business will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection—primarily patent protection—of our technologies and product candidates, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We and our collaborators will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us or our potential future collaborators to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Further, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be granted or enforced for our patents or for third-party patents that we have licensed. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 29 Table of Contents • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and future issued patents, or those of our licensors, may not provide a basis for protecting commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties and invalidated or rendered unenforceable; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable. Our existing and any future patent rights may not adequately protect any of our product candidates, which could prevent us from ever generating any revenues or profits. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending or future patent applications will mature into issued patents, or that any of our current or future issued patents will adequately protect our product candidates from competitors. For example, there is a large body of prior art, including multiple issued patents and published patent applications, disclosing molecules in the same chemical class as our MDV300 series compounds. Since our MDV300 series compounds include approximately 170 specific molecules, we expect that some members of this series may not be patentable in light of this prior art, or may infringe the claims of patents presently issued or issued in the future. Furthermore, we also cannot guarantee that any of our present or future issued patents will not be challenged by third parties, or that they will withstand any such challenge. If we are not able to obtain adequate protection for, or defend, the intellectual property position of our technologies and product candidates, then we may not be able to attract collaborators to acquire or partner our development programs. Further, even if we can obtain protection for and defend the intellectual property position of our technologies and product candidates, we or any of our potential future collaborators still may not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing drugs. Should this occur, we and our potential future collaborators may not generate any revenues or profits from our product candidates or our revenue or profits would be significantly decreased. We could become subject to litigation or other challenges regarding intellectual property rights, which could divert management attention, cause us to incur significant costs, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and/or subject us to competition by lower priced generic products. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and elsewhere involving pharmaceutical patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have been very aggressive in challenging the validity of patents held by proprietary pharmaceutical companies, especially if these patents are commercially significant. If any of our present or future product candidates succeed, we may face similar challenges to our existing or future patents. For example, in the prosecution of our issued United States patents claiming the use of dimebon and certain related compounds to treat neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, the prior owners missed a filing deadline with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, or PTO, which resulted in the patent application being deemed abandoned. The prior owners petitioned the PTO to revive the patent application alleging that missing the deadline was unintentional and the PTO approved the petition and issued the patent. However, as with any other decision the PTO makes, this decision could be challenged in subsequent litigation in an attempt to invalidate this issued United States patent and any other United States patent that may issue based on the same patent application. If a generic pharmaceutical company or other third party were able to successfully invalidate any of our present or future patents, any of our product candidates that may ultimately receive marketing approval could face additional competition from lower priced generic products that would result in significant price and revenue erosion and have a significantly negative impact on the commercial viability of the affected product candidate(s). In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend our activities in response to alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation, or a narrowing of the scope, of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to litigate and resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • discontinue our products that use or are covered by the challenged intellectual property; or 30 Table of Contents • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance does not cover potential claims of this type. In addition, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face other challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings and re-examination proceedings. Any such challenge, if successful, could result in the invalidation of, or in a narrowing of the scope of, any of our patents and patent applications subject to the challenge. Any such challenges, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend and resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement in order to protect our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not prevail in making these claims. We may need to obtain licenses of third-party technology that may not be available to us or are available only on commercially unreasonable terms, and which may cause us to operate our business in a more costly or otherwise adverse manner that was not anticipated. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop our existing and future product candidates. For example, in our industry there are a large number of issued patents and published patent applications with claims to treating diseases generically through use of any product that produces one or more biological activities—such as inhibiting a specific biological target. We are aware of several such issued patents relating to Alzheimer’s disease and expect to continue to encounter such patents relating to other diseases targeted by our present and future product candidates. We have not conducted experiments to analyze whether, and we have no evidence that, any of our product candidates produce the specific biological activities covered in any of the issued patents or published patent applications of which we are presently aware. We have not sought to acquire licenses to any such patents. In addition, the commercial scale manufacturing processes that we are developing for our product candidates may require licenses to third-party technology. Should we be required to obtain licenses to any third-party technology, including any such patents based on biological activities or required to manufacture our product candidates, such licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop any of our product candidates could cause us to abandon any related development efforts, which could seriously harm our business and operations. We may become involved in disputes with Pfizer, Astellas or potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant impact on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaborative agreements, including our collaboration agreements with Pfizer and Astellas, may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors generally have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. Trade secrets may not provide adequate protection for our business and technology. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or 31 Table of Contents our potential collaborators’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We have been named a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit. This, and potential similar or related litigation, could result in substantial damages and may direct management’s time and attention from our business and operations. On March 9, 2010 a purported securities class action lawsuit was commenced in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, naming as defendants us and certain of our officers. The lawsuit alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements made by us related to dimebon. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the defendants disseminated false and misleading statements about the effectiveness of dimebon for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease making it impossible for stockholders to gain a realistic understanding of the drug’s progress toward FDA approval. The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of stockholders who purchased our common stock between July 17, 2008 and March 2, 2010. The plaintiff seeks damages, an award of its costs and injunctive and/or equitable relief. It is possible that additional suits will be filed, or allegations received from stockholders, with respect to these same matters and also naming us and/or our officers and directors as defendants. Our management believes that we have meritorious defenses and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously. This lawsuit and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual cost will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of these suits and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from this matter, as this lawsuit is currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve this matter or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages, or possibly fines, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending litigation could lead to more volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may be volatile, and our stockholders’ investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for our securities and those of other life sciences companies have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • the receipt or failure to receive the additional funding necessary to conduct our business; • the progress and success of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates conducted by us, Pfizer, Astellas or our future collaborative partners or licensees, if any; • selling by existing stockholders and short-sellers; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaboration with Pfizer, our collaboration with Astellas, or any future collaborations, including any potential decision by Pfizer to terminate our dimebon collaboration due to the negative results of the CONNECTION trial reported in March 2010; 32 Table of Contents • publicity regarding us, our product candidates or those of our competitors, including research reports published by securities analysts; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • litigation, including the purported securities class action lawsuit commenced against us and certain of our officers and any other related lawsuits; • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not expect for the foreseeable future to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon, among other factors, our success in completing sales or partnerships of our programs, our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and applicable law. Our principal stockholders exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to your interests. Certain stockholders and their affiliates own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have the power to direct our affairs and be able to determine the outcome of certain matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Because a limited number of persons controls us, transactions could be difficult or impossible to complete without the support of those persons. Subject to applicable law, it is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to your interests. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless its application has been waived, provides certain default anti-takeover protections in connection with transactions between the company and an “interested stockholder” of the company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or the vote of two-thirds of the shares held by the independent stockholders. Our board of directors has also adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. Additionally, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including without limitation, the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 