D. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any of the following factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company’s management, or that the Company’s management currently thinks are immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. 7 The Company’s operations are based in Indonesia, which has been subject to economic and socio-political disruption in the past. Some parts of Indonesia have experienced social, ethnic and economic disruption. In November 1999, the Company abandoned its cultivation site in Kupang, W. Timor in part due to increasing unrest in the area. The province of West Papua, where some of the Company’s water leases are located, is agitating for independence. The Company monitors the socio-political situation closely. In the event of civil unrest, there is an evacuation plan in place to protect the Company’s employees. Security personnel are employed to provide protection to employees and the Company’s assets to the best of their ability. It is difficult to predict what will occur in the future. If the employees are forced to abandon any of the farm projects as a result of an emergency, the Company does not expect it will be able to salvage any of the oysters or pearls and this will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and financial condition. The cultivation process for South Sea pearls requires certain environmental conditions and any change in weather or water conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s pearl production. The cultivation process depends on certain environmental factors, including consistently warm sea water temperature, fully saline water conditions, adequate tidal flow to distribute the food supply and availability of phytoplankton food. There are only a few areas in the world that meet such requirements. The water areas encompassed by the Company’s water leases present ideal conditions for pearl cultivation. The conditions in these areas, however, are subject to change based on normal weather patterns. The Company has no control over these weather patterns. In 2002, weather patterns caused by El Niño adversely affected the Company’s ability to raise juvenile oysters. The Company established operations in Northern Bali primarily for the production of juvenile oysters in response to this problem. Notwithstanding this action, the Company anticipates that its rearing of oysters will continue to be affected by natural weather patterns. If these weather patterns continue, there can be no assurances that the Company will have access to sources of oysters for the pearl cultivation process or if available, that they will be available on favorable terms. The failure to maintain an adequate supply of juvenile oysters for nucleation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s pearl cultivation process. The Company’s oysters are sensitive to disease. The Company’s oysters are placed in panels in the sea. Although, the Company’s employees continuously clean the oysters, certain foreign organisms can enter the oyster and eat the oyster or cause diseases. The cultivation process for pearls takes approximately two years from the time the oyster is seeded, prior to the oyster being seeded, it takes two years for the animal to reach maturity. Therefore, the loss of oysters due to disease could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s production process and generation of revenue. The sale of pearls is dependent upon a strong economy. The sale of pearls is sensitive to fluctuations in the global economic cycle. Pearls are categorized as a luxury item and their consumption is dependent upon the availability of disposable income. Consumption is strongly influenced by fashion trends. The Company’s pearls compete with several other types of jewelry such as precious metals and precious gem stones for consumer disposable income. Unfavorable general economic conditions have an adverse effect on consumer spending for such items, and therefore on the Company’s sales. 8 The price for pearls is subject to fluctuation based on supply and quality. The price that the Company can obtain for its pearls is significantly dependent on the overall supply of available pearls and the quality of the Company’s pearls. There has been an increase in the supply of pearls globally. Most of the increase in South Sea pearl production has come from Indonesia and the Philippines, and there is evidence of increased production from Australia. This increase in supply has had an adverse effect on pearl prices, but the potential adverse impact of continued increases in supply cannot be determined with any certainty. There has also been an increase in supply of fresh water pearls from China and black pearls from Tahiti. In addition, although the Company closely monitors its pearl cultivation process, it is difficult to predict the quality of pearls the Company will harvest in any given year. Significant increases in the supply of pearls or decreases in the quality of the Company’s pearls could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. The Company is dependent on a small number of key expatriate managers. The Company’s cultivation process is very technical. The Company depends on a small number of key expatriate managers who supervise the cultivation process. Due in part to the remote location of the Company’s pearl farms, the Company has limited access to a skilled work force, and the replacement of these managers could be difficult. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could materially and adversely affect the Company’s pearl production, business and financial condition. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates. The majority of the revenues the Company derives from the sale of its pearls occurs in Japanese Yen. The Company’s revenues are reported, however, in Australian Dollars. Fluctuation in the exchange rate of Japanese Yen to the Australian Dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. The Company’s operating expenditures are predominantly denominated in Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”). Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the IDR and the Australian Dollar will have an effect on the operating results of the Company. The Company is exposed to the volatile inflation rate in Indonesia. Inflation in Indonesia has varied up to 17% per annum for the period from 2000 to 2005. The official inflation rate in Indonesia for 2005 was 17.1% per annum. In general, inflation increases all of the Company’s operating costs in Indonesia, but specifically impacts wages, food and fuel (diesel and benzene). As the Company’s revenues are derived mostly from sources outside of Indonesia, the Indonesian inflation rate does not cause a corresponding increase in the Company’s revenues. As a result, Indonesia’s inflation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s expense structure. ITEM 