ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the following information: Industry Factors Starting in 2008, U.S. and global economies experienced a serious recession, unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, significant deterioration in sectors of the U.S. and global consumer and business economies and a slow economic recovery, all of which presented challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation; the U.S. Government responded to these circumstances in the U.S. with a variety of measures; there can be no assurance that these measures ultimately will successfully address these circumstances; the U.S. Government continues to face significant fiscal and budgetary challenges which, if not resolved, may further exacerbate U.S. economic conditions. Since 2008, adverse financial and economic developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and have presented challenges for the banking and financial services industry and for UnionBanCal Corporation. These developments included a general recession both globally and in the U.S. followed by a slow economic recovery and have contributed to substantial volatility in the financial markets. In response, various significant economic and monetary stimulus measures were implemented by the U.S. Congress and the Federal Reserve has been pursuing a highly accommodative monetary policy aimed at keeping interest rates at historically low levels although recent indications from the Federal Reserve are that it will taper down certain aspects of this policy. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information. It cannot be predicted whether U.S. Governmental actions will result in lasting improvement in financial and economic conditions affecting the U.S. banking industry and the U.S. economy. It also cannot be predicted whether and to what extent the efforts of the U.S. Government to combat the mixed economic conditions will continue. If, notwithstanding the government's fiscal and monetary measures, the U.S. economy were to deteriorate, or its recovery were too slow, this would present significant challenges for the U.S. banking and financial services industry and for the Company. In addition, as a wholly owned subsidiary of a foreign bank, we were not eligible to participate in some federal programs such as the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program and may not qualify for participation in future federal programs. Since 2010, certain European sovereign borrowers have encountered difficulties in financing renewals of their indebtedness and continue to face serious economic and financial challenges. If this trend continues or worsens, including spreading to other countries in the Eurozone, it could have adverse impacts on costs in the global debt markets that could increase funding costs for banks generally and could generate further adverse financial and economic conditions for global and U.S. markets. On-going concerns regarding significant economic weaknesses in various countries in the Eurozone continue to adversely affect confidence in the European financial markets and economies. During 2011 and continuing through 2013, leaders of major countries in the European Union pursued a variety of measures to address the Eurozone debt crisis including support plans for several Eurozone countries. There can be no assurance that measures that have been or may be taken to address the Eurozone debt crisis will resolve the challenging economic and financial situation of these countries or prevent the spread of such difficulties and resulting adverse impacts on the global and U.S. economies, with possible consequent adverse effects on the U.S. banking industry and our customers business and prospects. The challenges to the level of economic activity in the U.S., and therefore to the banking industry, have also been exacerbated at times in recent years by extensive political disagreements regarding the statutory debt limit on U.S. federal government obligations and measures to address the substantial federal deficits. Following enactment of federal legislation in August 2011 which averted a default by the U.S. federal government on its sovereign obligations by raising the statutory debt limit and which established a process whereby cuts in federal spending may be accomplished, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (Standard & 19 Table of Contents Poor's) lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. to "AA+" from "AAA" while affirming its highest rating on short-term U.S. obligations. Standard & Poor's also stated at the time that its outlook on the long-term rating remained negative; however, in June 2013, Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on the U.S. credit rating to stable from negative. At the present time, both Fitch Ratings and Moody's have reaffirmed the U.S.'s "AAA" credit rating; however, Fitch Ratings has stated that its outlook on the U.S. is negative, while in July 2013, Moody's revised its outlook on the U.S. credit rating to stable from negative. Although it is not possible to predict the long-term impact of these developments on the U.S. economy in general and the banking industry in particular, the downgrade by Standard & Poor's and any further downgrades by it or other rating agencies could increase over time the U.S. federal government's cost of borrowing which may worsen its fiscal challenges, as well as generating upward pressure on interest rates generally in the U.S. which could, in turn, have adverse consequences for borrowers and the level of business activity. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the U.S. banking industry Dramatic declines in the housing market in the U.S. in general, and in California in particular, during 2008 and continuing through 2011, with falling or sluggish home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, residential and commercial real estate loans and small business and other commercial loans, in turn, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. These adverse economic conditions also led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in 2009 and this effect continued, although to a lesser degree, in 2010. Although the economic conditions in our markets and in the U.S. generally have shown improvement during 2012 and 2013, there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve. These conditions may again decline in the near future and could be influenced by any continuing controversy over federal spending and debt limits. In addition, turbulent political and economic conditions in foreign countries have negatively impacted the U.S. financial markets and economy in general and may do so in the future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties may be impaired if the applications and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers and counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors. •We may not be able to accurately estimate credit exposure losses because the process we use to estimate these losses requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments with respect to predictions which may not be amenable to precise estimates, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. •Further downgrades in the credit ratings of major U.S. or foreign banks, or other financial difficulties affecting such major banks, could have adverse consequences for the financial markets generally, including possible negative effects on the available sources of market liquidity and increased pricing pressures in such markets, which, in turn, could make it more difficult or expensive for banks generally and for us to access such markets to satisfy liquidity needs. 20 Table of Contents •Significant fluctuations in the prices of equity and fixed income securities could adversely impact the revenues of our asset management and trust business. The fees we charge are based upon values of assets we manage and declines in values proportionately reduce our fees charged. •Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions and the enhanced ability of banks to expand across state lines under the Dodd-Frank Act (see "Substantial competition could adversely affect us"). •We may incur goodwill impairment losses in future periods. See "Critical Accounting Estimates—Annual Goodwill Impairment Analysis" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. •We have been subject to increased FDIC deposit premiums relative to pre-2008 levels, although our assessment decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 and did not increase in 2012 or 2013, but in future years may be subject to further premium increases which could increase our costs. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding FDIC actions relating to deposit insurance assessments. The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state banking regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of investors in our securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This will continue and likely intensify in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of and intensify their examination of compliance with these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, as well as by supervisory action or criminal proceedings taken as a result of noncompliance, which could result in the imposition of significant civil money penalties or fines. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional supervision, fees, taxes or restrictions on our operations. Compliance with laws and regulations, especially new laws and regulations, increases our operating expenses and may divert management attention from our business operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This important legislation has affected U.S. financial institutions, including UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank, in many ways, some of which have increased, or may increase in the future, the cost of doing business and present other challenges to the financial services industry. Due to our size of over $50 billion in assets, we are regarded as "systemically significant" to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, are subject to additional regulations as discussed further below. Various provisions of the law have been implemented by rules and regulations of the federal banking agencies, but certain provisions of the law are yet to be implemented by the federal banking agencies and therefore the full scope and impact of the law on banking institutions generally and on our business cannot be fully determined at this time. The law contains many provisions that may have particular relevance to the business of UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which has direct supervision and examination authority over banks with more than $10 billion in assets, including Union Bank. While the full effect of these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act on Union Bank cannot be predicted at this time, they have resulted in adjustments to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums, and can be expected to result in increased capital and liquidity requirements, increased supervision, increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs and other operational costs and expenses, reduced fee-based revenues and restrictions on some aspects of our operations, as well as increased interest expense on our demand deposits, some or all of which may be material. 21 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve published proposed rules in December 2011 to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies like the Company and other systemically important firms. The proposed rules included new requirements relating to capital planning, liquidity risk management, counterparty credit exposure limits, overall risk management standards, stress testing, debt-to-equity limits, resolution planning and early remediation. In November 2012, the Federal Reserve issued final rules regarding stress testing requirements. The OCC also adopted similar rules for large national banks such as Union Bank. The stress testing rules govern the timing and type of stress testing activities required of large bank holding companies and banks as well as rules governing testing controls, oversight and disclosure requirements. In December 2012, the Federal Reserve published proposed rules regarding enhanced prudential standards for large FBOs, such as MUFG and BTMU, operating in the U.S. which were similar in many respects to the December 2011 proposed rules for large U.S. bank holding companies. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve adopted final rules regarding enhanced prudential standards for both large U.S. BHCs, such as the Company, and large FBOs operating in the U.S. The enhanced prudential standards final rule is part of an integrated set of rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve for both large BHCs and large FBOs operating in the U.S. These integrated rules include the Federal Reserve's resolution plan, capital plan, and stress testing rules, as well as the final rule regarding enhanced prudential standards. (The resolution, capital plan and stress testing rules are discussed below in this section.) For larger domestic BHC's, the final enhanced prudential standards rule formalizes governance and oversight processes with respect to various prudential standards already in place through the Federal Reserve's other rule-makings, as noted above and elsewhere in this section, but also imposes certain additional requirements such as an internal liquidity stress testing regime (intended to be complementary to the Federal Reserve's liquidity coverage ratio proposal discussed below) and maintenance of a related liquidity buffer. The Federal Reserve delayed finalizing single counterparty credit limit requirements that had been proposed pending the Basel Committee's completion of its work on developing a large financial institution exposure framework. The Federal Reserve also delayed adopting proposed rules implementing the early remediation requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, which remain under consideration. The final enhanced prudential standards rule addresses a diverse array of regulatory areas, each of which is highly complex. In some instances, the rule implements new financial regulatory requirements and in other instances it overlaps other regulatory reforms already in existence (such as the Basel III capital and liquidity reforms and stress testing requirements discussed elsewhere in this report). The final rules relating to FBOs address enhanced prudential standards similar in various respects to those adopted for larger BHCs, such as enhanced requirements relating to risk management, including liquidity risk management and capital and liquidity stress testing. However, the final FBO rules differ in various respects from the BHC rules. For example, a larger FBO must certify to the Federal Reserve that it meets capital adequacy standards established by its home country supervisor that are consistent with the Basel Committee framework. If the FBO does not satisfy such requirements, the Federal Reserve may impose requirements, conditions or restrictions on its U.S. activities. In addition, the final FBO rules require that an FBO with $50 billion or more of non-branch assets in the U.S. operate in the U.S. through an intermediate holding company (IHC) structure. The FBO is required to hold its interest in any U.S. subsidiary through the IHC, which will be its top-tier U.S. subsidiary. U.S. branches of FBOs, such as those of BTMU, and foreign bank agencies are excluded from this requirement. The final FBO rules provide for an initial compliance date for FBOs of July 1, 2016 and generally defer application of a leverage ratio to IHC's until 2018. However, larger BHCs, such as the Company, will become subject to enhanced prudential standards applicable to larger BHCs on January 1, 2015, whether or not they are also a subsidiary of an FBO, and those BHCs that are also FBO subsidiaries will remain subject to the BHC standards until a U.S. IHC is formed or designated and becomes subject to the parallel requirements under the FBO rules. MUFG, BTMU and the Company are analyzing the impact of these rules on their U.S. operations and will make 22 Table of Contents appropriate structural, operational and financial changes to comply with these rules, as well as preparing a required implementation plan by January 1, 2015. For additional information, see "Supervision and Regulation—Principal Federal Banking Laws—Dodd-Frank Act" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve and the other U.S. federal banking agencies adopted final rules making significant changes to the U.S. regulatory capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. For additional information, see "Supervision and Regulation—Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Standards" in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Capital Changes" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. In October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies requested comment on proposed rules that would implement the LCR, which is a quantitative liquidity standard included in the Basel III framework of the Basel Committee. The proposed rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and HQLA to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions provided in the rules (net cash outflow). An institution's LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the reductions and limitations in the rules, divided by its net cash outflow, with the quotient expressed as a ratio. The LCR standard would apply to all internationally active banking organizations—generally, those with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. The proposal also would apply a less stringent, modified LCR to bank holding companies that are not internationally active, but have more than $50 billion in total assets (such as the Company). Under the proposed modified LCR rules, financial institutions would, following a phase-in period, have to maintain an LCR equal to at least 100 percent based on the entity's total projected net cash outflows over the next 21 calendar days, effectively using net outflow assumptions equal to 70 percent of the outflow assumptions prescribed for internationally active banking organizations. While the proposed modified LCR rules are generally less stringent than the LCR requirement included in the Basel III framework, in certain respects they are more restrictive. For example, the proposed rule requires daily calculation of the LCR and would phase-in the LCR more quickly than required under the Basel III framework, with full compliance required beginning January 1, 2017. Although the impact on the Company will not be fully known until the rules are final, we expect to be in compliance with the requirements when they become effective. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, could limit the Company's business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. It could also result in the Company taking steps to increase its capital or being limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to its shareholder, or selling or refraining from acquiring assets. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require the Company to increase its holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing the Company's ability to invest in longer-term or less liquid assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and acquisitions. In December 2013, the financial regulatory agencies adopted final rules implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule. The final rule generally prohibits banking entities from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on these instruments for their own account. The final rules provide exemptions for certain activities, including certain types of market making, underwriting, hedging of specific, identifiable risks of individual or aggregated positions, and trading in U.S. government, agency, state and municipal obligations. These exemptions are limited if they involve a material conflict of interest, a material exposure to high-risk assets or trading strategies, or a threat to the institution's safety and soundness or to that of the U.S. financial system. The rules also 23 Table of Contents exempt trading for customers in a fiduciary capacity or in riskless principal trades, subject to certain requirements. The Volcker Rule also prohibits banking entities from owning and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exclusions. Union Bank sold the vast majority of its non-conforming private equity brand interests after the Volker Rule was proposed. The Volcker Rule also provides compliance requirements generally requiring banking entities to establish an internal compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the final rules. Larger banking entities, such as the Company, will be required to establish a more detailed compliance program, including a required CEO attestation. The final Volcker Rule is effective April 1, 2014 but the banking agencies have extended the full conformance period until July 2015. We are presently evaluating the potential impact of the Volcker Rule on our business. We are analyzing the extent to which some of our collateralized loan obligations may need to be modified or divested by the end of the conformance period; we do not believe that any such divestiture would have a material impact on the Company. We do expect our compliance costs to increase as a result of the rule. See "Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on our Global Capital Markets activities due to enhanced oversight of derivatives and swap activities by multiple regulatory agencies (the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission, the SEC and the bank regulators). In addition, certain types of non-conforming swap transactions, such as commodity derivatives, may be required to be "pushed out" of Union Bank into a separate non-bank affiliate. In January 2014, the OCC proposed guidelines that would establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for large national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, as well as potentially smaller insured depository institutions. The proposed guidelines are intended to build upon and formalize "heightened expectations" for risk governance developed by the OCC in 2010 and are intended to improve examiners' ability to assess compliance with the OCC's expectations. The proposed guidelines establish specific risk management-related roles and responsibilities for three designated functions: a bank's "front line" units, independent risk management, and internal audit. The guidelines would require these three designated functions to maintain independence from each other and impose substantial risk management-related and other responsibilities on a bank's board of directors and chief executive officer. Although the Company has had in place a robust corporate governance framework which substantially complies with the proposed guidelines, these guidelines, if adopted as proposed, could require changes in our management and internal processes and may result in an increased level of regulatory oversight into our management and internal processes, which could potentially result in increased regulatory and compliance risks and an increase in our compliance and operational costs and expenses. The newly-adopted capital rules of the federal banking agencies and the FBO rules of the Federal Reserve, referred to above, as well as the various proposed regulations described above, if adopted, along with other regulations which may be adopted in the future, may also generally increase our cost of doing business and lead us to stop or reduce our offerings of various credit products. Proposals to reform the housing finance market in the U.S. could also significantly affect our business. These proposals, among other things, consider winding down the government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (GSEs) and reducing or eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. While the specific nature of these reforms and their impact on the financial services industry in general, and on Union Bank in 24 Table of Contents particular, is uncertain at this time, such reforms, if enacted, are likely to have a substantial impact on the mortgage market and could potentially reduce our income from mortgage originations by increasing mortgage costs or lowering originations. The GSE reforms could also reduce real estate prices, which could reduce the value of collateral securing outstanding mortgage loans. This reduction of collateral value could negatively impact the value or perceived collectability of these mortgage loans and may increase our allowance for loan losses. Such reforms may also include changes to the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which could adversely affect a significant source of funding for lending activities by the banking industry, including Union Bank. These reforms may also result in higher interest rates on residential mortgage loans, thereby reducing demand, which could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business. President Obama's proposed 2014 U.S. budget includes a "Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee" that would apply to banks with greater than $50 billion in assets. This fee would be effective January 1, 2015 and would be intended to recover taxpayer funds provided to U.S. financial institutions through the U.S. Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). On May 21, 2012, the U.S. Treasury announced its final rule to establish an assessment fee on all institutions with greater than $50 billion in assets to fund the Office of Financial Research. As we have greater than $50 billion in assets, under the final rule we are subject to this fee at the MUFG level. In August 2013, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement Section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act which imposed a new supervisory assessment on all institutions with greater than $50 billion in assets, which is being assessed at the MUFG level, and is based on an average of the total combined assets of MUFG from U.S. operations, net of U.S. intercompany balances and allowed transactions. Therefore, our operating costs over time can be expected to increase due to these assessments, which are based, among other things, on the projected operating expenses of this new office and the aggregate assessable assets of the subject banks. Several cities in the United States (including Los Angeles and San Diego) have adopted so-called "responsible banking acts", and other cities are considering the adoption of similar ordinances. These city ordinances generally require banks that hold city government deposits to provide detailed accounts of their lending practices in low-income communities, as well as their participation in foreclosure prevention and home loan principal reduction programs. Performance under these ordinances is used as a basis for awarding the city's financial services contracts. The adoption of these ordinances by municipalities for which Union Bank is a provider of cash management or other banking services could result in increased regulatory and compliance costs and other operational costs and expenses, making this business less desirable to the Bank and potentially resulting in reduced opportunities for the Bank to provide these services. International laws, regulations and policies affecting us, our subsidiaries and the business we conduct may change at any time and affect our business opportunities and competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Due to our ownership by BTMU, laws, regulations, policies, fines and other supervisory actions adopted or enforced by the Government of Japan and the Federal Reserve may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. We maintain systems and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of criminal or civil penalties (which can be substantial) for noncompliance. In some cases, liability may attach even if the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even if compliance systems and procedures were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities and damage to our reputation. 25 Table of Contents Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and a long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. Government securities, (b) changing the discount rates on borrowings by depository institutions and the federal funds rate, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve can be expected to have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for discussion of certain additional existing and proposed laws and regulations that may affect our business. The increasing regulation of the financial services industry has required and can be expected to continue to require significant investments in technology, personnel or other resources. Our competitors may be subject to different or reduced degrees of regulation due to their asset size or types of products offered and may also be able to more efficiently utilize resources to comply with regulations and to more efficiently absorb increased regulatory compliance costs into their existing cost structure. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact of current economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Or, we might increase the allowances because of changing economic conditions, which we conclude have caused losses to be sustained in our portfolio. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce borrowers' ability to repay their loans, resulting in our increasing the allowance. Volatility in commodity-related costs could also adversely impact some borrowers' ability to repay their loans. We might also increase the allowances because of unexpected events. Any increase in our credit allowances would result in a charge to earnings. Legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers, decrease our revenue from other customers and make it more difficult to originate loans to individual borrowers Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences. In response to the financial crisis, in 2009, legislation was proposed to allow mortgage loan "cram-downs," which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans including the ability to reduce the principal amounts to reflect lower underlying property values. Although this legislation has not moved forward at this time, legislation of this type could result in our writing down the value of our residential mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their lower loan values. There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher 26 Table of Contents losses to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults. Changes in federal rules have imposed new restrictions on banks' abilities to charge overdraft services and interchange fees on debit card transactions. Under the final rule, effective October 1, 2011, the maximum permissible interchange fee that a bank may receive is the sum of $0.21 per transaction and five basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, with an additional upward adjustment of no more than $0.01 per transaction if a bank develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve fraud-prevention standards set by regulation. In July 2013, a Federal district court held that this rule was not valid under the Act's standard that the fee be "reasonable and proportional" to the cost of processing the debit card transactions and improperly included certain categories of costs in applying the statutory standard. The Federal Reserve appealed the decision, and the ruling has been stayed. This decision, upon its effectiveness, which would be after resolution of the appeal, could further reduce the fee revenues that banks, including Union Bank, can receive from the business of debit card transactions. These restrictions are resulting in decreased revenues and increased compliance costs for the banking industry and Union Bank, and there can be no assurance that alternative sources of revenues can be implemented to offset the impact of these developments. See "Supervision and Regulation—Other Federal Laws and Regulations Affecting Banks—Overdraft and Interchange Fees; Interest on Demand Deposits" in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K for additional information. In 2013, the CFPB issued its final Ability-to-Pay and Qualified Mortgage Rule that all newly originated residential mortgages must meet, effective with new applications received as of January 10, 2014. The Ability-to-Pay and Qualified Mortgage Rule establishes guidelines that the lender must follow when reviewing an applicant's income, obligations, assets, liabilities and credit history and requires that the lender make a reasonable and good faith determination of an applicant's ability to repay the loan according to its terms. The rule also establishes the concept of a "Qualified Mortgage" which is defined under the rule to include those mortgage loans with regularly scheduled, substantially equal periodic payments, terms of thirty years or less, and total points and fees not exceeding three percent of the loan amount, among other criteria. Loans meeting the criteria for a "Qualified Mortgage" are entitled to a presumption that the lender complied with the rule's Ability-to-Pay requirements. Under the rule, the borrower has a defense to foreclosure unless the lender establishes the borrower's ability to repay or that the loan was a Qualified Mortgage or met other exceptions to the rule. The Company has established a compliance program which aims to ensure compliance with the rule for all new loans made after January 10, 2014. The Ability-to-Pay and Qualified Mortgage Rule and any new regulatory requirements promulgated by the CFPB could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business as the industry adapts to the rule and any additional regulations. Our business strategy, product offerings and profitability may change as the market adjusts to the new rule and any additional regulations and as these requirements are interpreted by the regulators and courts. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs and assumptions to estimate fair value. Because generally accepted accounting principles require fair value measurements to reflect appropriate adjustments for risks related to liquidity and the use of unobservable assumptions, we may recognize unrealized losses even if we believe that the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. During periods of adverse conditions in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments with respect to securities in our investment portfolio. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest 27 Table of Contents rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates on deposits or other funding sources could adversely affect our net interest margin Changes in market interest rates on deposits or other funding sources, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact, and has in past years impacted, our net interest margin (that is, the difference between the interest rates we charge on interest earning assets, such as loans, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings). This impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. Increases in interest rates may also adversely impact the value of our investment securities portfolio and impact loan performance by making it more difficult for borrowers with adjustable rate loans to service their debts. For the past several years, the banking industry has operated in an extremely low interest rate environment relative to historical averages, and the Federal Reserve has pursued highly accommodative monetary policies (including a very low federal funds rate and substantial purchases of long-term U.S. Treasury and agency securities) in an effort to facilitate growth in the U.S. economy and a reduction in levels of unemployment. This environment has placed downward pressure on the net interest margins of U.S. banks, including the Company. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or to what extent these Federal Reserve policies will continue. However, in December 2013, the Federal Reserve announced that in light of the improving outlook for U.S. labor market conditions and other economic indicators, the Federal Reserve would begin in January 2014 reducing the rate at which it would acquire U.S. Treasury and federal agency backed securities. The agency noted that the pace of such asset purchases in the future would be contingent on the agency's outlook for the labor market, inflation and other factors. The agency further noted that it currently anticipates that it will sustain its current very low target rate for the federal funds rate until the U.S. unemployment rate declines below 6.5 percent. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits or seek higher yielding deposits, which may increase our funding costs and adversely affect our liquidity position Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, other non-depository investments or higher yielding deposits, as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes has made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Future increases in short-term interest rates could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments either with us or with external providers. In addition, our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not fully insured by the FDIC. Depositors may withdraw certain deposits from Union Bank and place them in other institutions or invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates or reduce fees to retain certain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. In addition, we have benefited from a "flight to quality" by consumers and businesses seeking the relative safety of bank deposits over the past few years. As interest rates rise from historically low levels during the current period, our newly acquired deposits may not be as stable or as interest rate insensitive as similar deposits may have been in the past, and as the recovery in the U.S. economy continues, some existing or prospective deposit customers of banks generally, including Union Bank, may be inclined to pursue other investment alternatives. 28 Table of Contents Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding cost. The repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, as of July 2011, financial institutions have been allowed to offer interest on demand deposits, including business demand deposits, to compete for clients. Our interest expense may increase and our net interest margin may decrease if we are required to offer interest on business demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Substantial competition could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in the West Coast states as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banks and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Some of our competitors are insurance companies or community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, which are well in excess of ours. Competition in our industry may further intensify as a result of the recent and increasing level of consolidation of financial services companies, particularly in our principal markets resulting from adverse economic and market conditions. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources if they develop credit needs larger than we may be able to accommodate. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our activities and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and payment systems. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions and other financial companies, which do not always have a physical presence in our market footprint and have grown rapidly in recent years. Competition in our principal markets may further intensify as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, permits the establishment of new branches in states other than their home state by national banks, state banks and foreign banks to the same extent as banks located in the other states. There are an increasing number of non-bank competitors providing financial services Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits and other financial transactions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements or new interpretations of existing standards emerge as standard industry practice. These changes can be very difficult 29 Table of Contents to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. The continuing war on terrorism, overseas military conflicts and unrest in other countries could adversely affect U.S. and global economic conditions Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats and other international hostilities, as well as political unrest in various regions, including the Middle East, may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial conditions and increases in energy costs and could adversely affect business, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. and globally and in our principal markets. In addition, continuing global tensions may result in new and enhanced U.S. economic sanctions against other governments or entities which may increase our compliance costs under the regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control and other federal agencies. Company Factors Adverse economic factors affecting certain industries we serve could adversely affect our business We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, especially in California. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations, and could negatively impact our title and escrow deposit levels. Additionally, a continued or further downturn in the areas of the residential real estate and housing industries in California which have not experienced recovery, or renewed downturn in those which have, could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our real estate loan portfolio. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolios in various ways, including by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. These factors could also negatively affect the economy in general and thereby our overall loan portfolio. The temporary upper limit of $729,750 for a residential mortgage loan that may be purchased by the government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac expired on September 30, 2011, and the high balance loan limit was reduced to $625,500. This limit applied to high cost areas where the median home price exceeded the conforming loan limit, including many areas within our markets. This reduction could result in higher mortgage rates for borrowers purchasing homes that exceed the new limit, which, in turn, could reduce the pool of eligible buyers for high value homes, reduce mortgage originations and negatively impact the collateral value of homes in high cost areas. Any of these results could have an adverse impact on our residential mortgage lending business. The mortgage industry is in the midst of unprecedented change triggered by the significant economic downturn which commenced in 2008. Lawmakers and regulators have been taking steps to establish national servicing standards to protect residential mortgage borrowers and establish a common framework for response to the concerns of residential mortgage customers, especially related to default and foreclosure. Included in these measures have been litigation by 49 state attorneys general against the largest mortgage servicers in the U.S., enhanced federal regulatory guidance regarding foreclosure practices and other matters and legislation at the state level, including in California. These increased standards and restrictions are expected to impact the overall mortgage loan servicing industry in general, increase the cost of residential mortgage lending, require mortgage loan principal write-downs, and could put downward pressure on property values and have other adverse impacts on our residential lending business. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors and are impacting the performance of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial portfolios. The commercial real estate industry in the U.S., and in California in particular, were adversely impacted by the recessionary environment and lack of liquidity in the financial 30 Table of Contents markets. The home building and mortgage industry in California also were especially adversely impacted by the deterioration in residential real estate markets. Poor economic conditions and financial access for commercial real estate developers and homebuilders could adversely affect property values, resulting in higher nonperforming assets and charge-offs in this sector. Our commercial and industrial portfolio, and the communications and media industry, the retail industry, and the energy industry in particular, were also adversely impacted by recessionary market conditions. Continued volatility in fuel prices and energy costs could adversely affect businesses in several of these industries, while a prolonged slump in natural gas and coal prices could have adverse consequences for some of our borrowers in the energy sector. Conditions remain uncertain in various industries and could produce elevated levels of charge-offs. Industry-specific risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge-offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. Adverse California economic conditions could adversely affect our business For the last several years, economic conditions in California have been subject to various challenges, including significant deterioration in the residential real estate sector and the California state government's budgetary and fiscal difficulties. California continues to have a relatively high unemployment rate. Also, certain California real estate markets have experienced some of the worst property value declines in the U.S. In addition, until 2013, the State of California had experienced budget shortfalls or deficits that led to protracted negotiations between the Governor and the State Legislature over how to address the budget gap. The California electorate approved, in the November 2012 general elections, certain increases in the rate of income taxation in California. As a consequence, California's 2013-14 budget proposal does not reflect a deficit; however, there can be no assurance that the state's fiscal and budgetary challenges will be readily resolved. In addition, the impact of increased rates of income taxation on the level of economic activity in California cannot be predicted at this time. Also, municipalities and other governmental units within California have been experiencing budgetary difficulties, and several California municipalities have filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code. As a result, concerns also have arisen regarding the outlook for the governmental obligations of California municipalities and other governmental units. A substantial majority of our assets, deposits and interest and fee income is generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. If the budgetary and fiscal difficulties of the California State government and California municipalities and other governmental units continue or economic conditions in California decline further, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. Our stockholder votes are controlled by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Since November 2008, BTMU, a wholly owned subsidiary of MUFG, has owned all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BTMU can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer; payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities; and other matters that might be favorable to BTMU or MUFG. A majority of our directors are independent of BTMU and are not officers or employees of UnionBanCal Corporation or any of our affiliates, including BTMU. However, because of BTMU's control over the election of our directors, it could at any time change the composition of our Board of Directors so that the Board would not have a majority of independent directors. 31 Table of Contents The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's credit ratings and financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations Adverse changes to our credit ratings, reputation or creditworthiness could have a negative effect on our operations. We fund our operations in substantial part independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, if BTMU and MUFG's credit ratings or financial condition or prospects were to decline, this could adversely affect our credit rating or harm our reputation or perceived creditworthiness. At this time, we cannot predict actions, if any, which the rating agencies may take regarding the Government of Japan, MUFG or BTMU, nor the ultimate effect of these developments on our credit rating. BTMU and MUFG are also subject to regulatory oversight, review and supervisory action (which can include fines or penalties) by Japanese and U.S. regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns or supervisory action in the U.S. and in Japan against BTMU or MUFG. In June 2013, BTMU entered into a consent agreement with the New York State Department of Financial Services under which it made a civil monetary payment of $250 million to resolve issues relating to certain U.S. dollar payments that were routed through New York from 2002 to 2007. BTMU has received requests and subpoenas for information from government agencies in some jurisdictions, including the United States, Europe and Asia, which are conducting investigations into past submissions made by panel members, including BTMU, to the bodies that set various interbank offered rates. BTMU is cooperating with these investigations and has been conducting an internal investigation. Union Bank is not a member of any of these panels. In addition, BTMU and other panel members have been named as defendants in a number of civil lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the United States relating to similar matters. It is currently not possible for us to predict the scope and ultimate outcome of these investigations or lawsuits, including any possible effect on us as an affiliate of MUFG. Potential conflicts of interest with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could adversely affect us The views of BTMU and MUFG regarding possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, including compliance and risk management processes, may differ from ours. This may prevent, delay or hinder us from pursuing individual initiatives or cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to additional oversight. Also, as part of BTMU's risk management processes, BTMU manages global credit and other types of exposures and concentrations on an aggregate basis, including exposures and concentrations at UnionBanCal. Therefore, at certain levels or in certain circumstances, our ability to approve certain credits or other banking transactions and categories of customers is subject to the concurrence of BTMU. We may wish to extend credit or furnish other banking services to the same customers as BTMU. Our ability to do so may be limited for various reasons, including BTMU's aggregate exposure and marketing policies. Certain of our directors' and officers' ownership interests in MUFG's common stock or service as a director or officer or other employee of both us and BTMU could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest, especially since both we and BTMU compete in U.S. banking markets. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends our bank and non-bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. 32 Table of Contents Risks associated with potential acquisitions, divestitures, integrations or restructurings may adversely affect us We have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to expand our business by acquiring other businesses which we believe will enhance our business. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to: the total cost of integration; the retention of key personnel; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; continued growth; or the overall performance of the acquired company or combined entity. We also may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals and unexpected contingent liabilities can arise from the businesses we acquire. Acquisitions may also lead us to enter geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a business or assets we may acquire may deteriorate after an acquisition closes, which could result in impairment or other expenses and charges which would reduce our operating results. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly. If we are not able to integrate successfully past or future acquisitions, there is a risk that results of operations could be adversely affected. In February 2014, the Boards and management bodies of UnionBanCal and Union Bank, as well as BTMU and MUFG, approved a business integration initiative described in "Management's Discussion & Analysis—Executive Overview—Business Integration Initiative." While not a legal entity combination but an integration of operations and management, there are risks involved with this initiative, including regulatory and execution risks comparable to those of any business combination. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell or restructure a business. Any divestitures or restructurings may result in significant expenses and write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and may involve additional risks, including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered in connection with any acquisition, divestiture, integration or restructuring we might make. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the products and services offered by us and our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion, see "Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. We rely on third parties for important products and services Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution and although we monitor their performance, we do not control their actions. Among other services provided by these vendors, third-party vendors have played and will continue to play a key role in the implementation of our technology enhancement projects. The federal banking agencies have issued enhanced guidance and are examining with increasing scrutiny financial institutions' diligence conducted on and oversight of their third-party vendors. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly or failing to meet legal and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, or implement our technology enhancement projects and otherwise to 33 Table of Contents conduct our business and also could result in disputes with such vendors over their performance of their services to us, as well as adverse regulatory consequences for us. Replacing these third-party vendors on economically feasible terms may not always be possible or within our control and could also entail significant delay and expense. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, retain and successfully integrate skilled personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover among members of management, primarily due to retirement or rotation to other assignments within the MUFG group. We must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we bring into the organization in order to achieve our operating objectives as new management becomes familiar with our business. The federal banking regulators, have issued guidance which is intended to prohibit incentive compensation arrangements at insured depository institutions that would encourage inappropriate risk taking, are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. In addition, the FDIC has proposed rules which would increase deposit premiums for institutions with compensation practices deemed to increase risk to the institution. Over time, this guidance and the proposed rules, if adopted, could have the effect of making it more difficult for banks to attract and retain skilled personnel. The challenging operating environment and current operational initiatives may strain our available resources There are an increasing number of matters in addition to our core operations which require our attention and resources. These matters include implementation of our technology enhancement projects, meeting the needs of our customers through the use of technology to provide improved products and services that will satisfy customer demands, and which will meet our competitors' similar initiatives, adoption of the U.S. Basel III and other enhanced capital and liquidity guidelines, various strategic initiatives, an uncertain economic environment, a challenging regulatory environment, including the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted thereunder, and integration of new employees, including key members of management. Our ability to execute our core operations and to implement other important initiatives may be adversely affected if our resources are insufficient or if we are unable to allocate available resources effectively. Also, our ability to constrain or reduce operating expense levels may be limited by the costs of increasing regulatory requirements and expectations. Significant legal or regulatory proceedings could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our present or previous operations including claims by customers and our employees and our contractual counterparties. These claims, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by bank regulatory authorities, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve demands for large monetary amounts, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that have been or might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In the past several years, federal and state regulators have announced regulatory enforcement actions against a 34 Table of Contents number of large bank holding companies and banks arising from deficiencies in processes, procedures and controls involving anti-money laundering measures and compliance with the economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others as provided for in the regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department. These actions evidence an intensification of U.S. federal and state governments' expectations for compliance with these regulatory frameworks on the part of banks operating in the U.S., including Union Bank, and may result in increased compliance costs and increased risks of regulatory sanctions. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results Under a tax election we have made, we are required to file our California franchise tax returns as a member of a unitary group that includes MUFG's U.S. operations, including its U.S. branch activities and its U.S. affiliates. Increases or decreases in the taxable profits of MUFG's U.S. operations could increase or decrease our effective tax rate. We review MUFG's financial information on a quarterly basis to determine the rate at which to recognize our California income taxes. However, all of the information relevant to determining the effective California tax rate may not be available until after the end of the period to which the tax relates, primarily due to MUFG's March 31 fiscal year-end. Our California effective tax rate can change during the calendar year, or between calendar years, as additional information becomes available. We could be subject to penalties if we understate our tax obligations. Our effective tax rates also could be affected by valuation changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and by the outcomes of examinations of our income tax returns by the tax authorities. Our credit ratings are important in order to maintain liquidity Major credit rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of UnionBanCal Corporation and the securities and deposits of Union Bank. Their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities, and also of our short-term obligations, are based on a number of factors including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. In light of the continually evolving conditions in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current long-term and short-term ratings. In 2011, Moody's Investors Service, Standard and Poor's and Fitch, Inc. announced ratings downgrades for a number of large U.S. banks, in part because the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act makes it less likely that the government will step in to rescue a troubled bank. It is unclear whether a perceived reduction in systemic support could lead or contribute to negative downward pressure on our credit ratings. In June 2012, Moody's Investors Services announced further ratings downgrades for a number of major U.S. and foreign bank holding companies (not including us or our parent). If our long-term or short-term credit ratings suffer substantial downgrades, particularly if lowered below investment grade, such downgrades could adversely affect access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds (especially our wholesale funding), trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of commercial depositors, investors and counterparties willing or permitted to lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our ability to generate income. Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain a specified credit rating. If our credit rating were to fall below the specified rating, the counterparties to these derivative instruments could terminate the contract and demand immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization for those derivative instruments in net liability positions. Adverse changes in the credit ratings, operations or prospects of our parent companies, BTMU and MUFG, could also adversely impact our credit ratings. For additional information, refer to the discussion appearing above under the caption "The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ's and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's credit ratings and financial or regulatory condition could adversely affect our operations." 35 Table of Contents We are subject to operational risks, including cybersecurity risks We are subject to many types of operational risks throughout our organization. Operational risk is the potential loss from our operations due to factors, such as failures in internal control, systems failures, cybersecurity risks or external events, that do not fall into the market risk or credit risk categories described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Operational risk includes execution risk related to operational initiatives, such as implementation of our technology enhancement projects; increased reliance on internally developed models for risk and finance management, including models associated with regulatory capital requirements; reputational, legal and compliance risk; the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders; unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems; and operational risks related to use of third party service providers. A discussion of risks associated with regulatory compliance appears above under the caption "The effects of changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us." Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, transmission and reporting of personal, confidential and other sensitive information or data in our computer systems, networks and business applications. Although we take protective measures, our computer systems may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have significant negative consequences to us. Such events could result in interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or our customers' operations; interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information and data; or processing of unauthorized transactions or loss of funds. These events could result in litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by our insurance, and regulatory consequences or reputational harm, any of which could harm our competitive position, operating results and financial condition. These types of incidents can remain undetected for extended periods of time, thereby increasing the associated risks. We may also be required to expend significant resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or exposures arising from cybersecurity risks. We may also be required to expend significant resources to cover costs imposed on us as a result of breaches of bank card information occurring at retail merchants and other businesses. We depend on the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and our employees in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect or data which is not reliable. With regard to the physical infrastructure that supports our operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any disruption to that infrastructure. Failures in our internal control or operational systems, security breaches or service interruptions could impair our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Union Bank and reportedly other financial institutions have been the target of various denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity in advance of future and more advanced cyber attacks. These denial-of-service attacks have not breached the Company's data security systems, but require substantial resources to defend, and may affect customer satisfaction and behavior. To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses or information security breaches in the future. While we have a variety of cybersecurity measures in place, the consequences to our business of such attacks cannot be predicted with any certainty. 36 Table of Contents In addition, there have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security at financial institutions as well as at other types of companies, such as large retailers, or with respect to financial transactions, including through the use of social engineering schemes such as "phishing." The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmissions of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches which would expose us to financial claims by customers or others and which could adversely affect our reputation. Even if cyber attacks and similar tactics are not directed specifically at Union Bank, such attacks on other large financial institutions could disrupt the overall functioning of the financial system and undermine consumer confidence in banks generally, to the detriment of other financial institutions, including Union Bank. A recent data security breach at a large U.S. retailer recently resulted in the compromise of data related to credit and debit cards of large numbers of customers requiring many banks, including Union Bank, to reissue credit and debit cards for affected customers and reimburse these customers for losses sustained. Proposals have been advanced to replace the magnetic-stripe cards commonly used in the U.S. with more secure smart-chip technology to reduce the risk of such data breaches. The costs of such a conversion could be considerable and it remains unclear at this time how much of such costs would be borne by retailers, card issuers and the banking industry. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from other events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical, internet or telecommunications outages or unexpected difficulties with the implementation of our technology enhancement projects, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues As a financial institution, our business and revenues are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. Negative public opinion about us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, governmental enforcement actions, corporate governance and acquisitions, social media, cyber-security breaches, or from actions taken by regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. We fund our operations, in substantial part, independently of BTMU and MUFG and believe our business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of BTMU or MUFG. However, negative public opinion could also result from regulatory concerns regarding, or supervisory or other governmental actions in the U.S. or Japan against, us or Union Bank, or BTMU or MUFG. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep, attract and retain lending, deposit and other customers and employees and can expose us to claims and litigation and regulatory actions and increased liquidity risk. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market and investment risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, fiduciary risk, counterparty risk and private equity risk, among others. Our framework to manage risk, including the framework's underlying assumptions, such as our modeling methodologies, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected, and there also could be consequent adverse regulatory implications in any such event. 37 Table of Contents Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud Since November 2008, all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock have been owned by MUFG through its wholly owned subsidiary BTMU. As such, we would have been no longer required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); however, we have elected to voluntarily register our common stock under the Exchange Act and for so long as we maintain that registration in effect we will be required to continue to file such periodic reports with the SEC in accordance with a reduced disclosure format permitted for certain wholly owned subsidiaries. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that may result in losses or adversely affect our earnings We may find it necessary to take actions or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction even though we are not required to do so by law. The risk that we will need to take such actions and incur the resulting losses or reductions in earnings is greater in periods when financial markets and the broader economy are performing poorly or are particularly volatile. As a result, such actions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, perhaps materially. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions As a result of trading, clearing or other relationships, we have exposure to many different counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers, dealers and investment banks. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially 38 Table of Contents different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include allowance for credit losses, acquired loans, valuation of financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment, hedge accounting, pension obligations, goodwill impairment analysis, and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase or decrease the allowance for credit losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly different than the reserve provided, recognize significant impairment on goodwill, or significantly increase or decrease our accrued tax liability. Any of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 