ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors or potential investors in Roberts Realty should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance, including our ability to make distributions to our investors. We have organized our summary of these risks into five subsections: ·financing risks; ·real estate related risks; ·tax risks; ·environmental and other legal risks; and ·risks for investors in our stock. This section includes forward-looking statements. Financing Risks We face the maturity of our short-term debt, and we may be unable to repay, extend, or refinance this debt. We have three loans with a total principal balance of $11,090,000 that are scheduled to mature within the next 12 months: (a) the $5,500,000 North Springs land loan that matures on July 17, 2014 (which we can extend to January 17, 2015 through two 3-month extensions by paying a 1.0% extension fee for each 3-month extension); (b) the $3,000,000 Bradley Park land loan that matures on August 10, 2014; and (c) the $2,590,000 Highway 20 land loan that matures on October 8, 2014. If we do not sell the North Springs property as we intend; or we are unable to extend or refinance our debt at maturity on acceptable terms, or at all; or we are unable to find alternative funding and raise additional capital for the development of the Bradley Park and Highway 20 properties; or we are unable to pursue successfully the strategies to reduce negative cash flow described elsewhere in this report, we might be compelled to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which could result in losses to us. Those losses could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and to pay distributions to our investors. If we are unable to meet mortgage payments on any mortgaged property, the mortgage holder could foreclose upon the property and take other actions. If we are unable to meet mortgage payments on any mortgaged property, the mortgage holder could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver, and receive an assignment of rents and leases, or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. We may not be able to obtain the debt and equity we need to carry out our planned development and construction program. To start construction on our Bradley Park and Northridge multifamily land parcels, we will need a substantial amount of additional debt and equity capital. We currently estimate that we will need approximately $15,314,000 of additional equity and $50,288,000 of debt to complete the construction of our Bradley Park, Northridge, and Highway 20 multifamily apartment communities. We believe that the equity we need to fund the construction of a new multifamily property, in addition to a construction loan, would come from the proceeds of a sale of the North Springs property, the contributions from a joint venture partner, or from raising private equity. We are not able to provide any assurance that we will be able to raise the debt and equity needed to complete the construction of even one new multifamily community. If we are unable to obtain debt and equity on favorable terms, we will be unable to carry out our planned development and construction program, and our returns to investors will be reduced accordingly. 11 Rising interest rates could materially and adversely affect the cost of our indebtedness. We have incurred and may again in the future incur debt that bears interest at a variable rate. As of March 3, 2014, we have $5,590,000 in loans that bear interest at a floating interest rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and to pay future distributions to our investors. We face the normal risks associated with debt financing. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risks that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest and that we will not be able to renew, repay, or refinance our debt when it matures or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of that debt. Under the payment terms contained in each mortgage note secured by one of our properties, our scheduled payments do not fully amortize the loan balance, and a balloon payment of the balance will be due upon its maturity. If we are unable to pay our obligations to our secured lenders, they could proceed against any or all of the collateral securing our indebtedness to them. In addition, a breach of the restrictions or covenants contained in our loan documents could cause an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may not have or may be unable to obtain sufficient funds to repay our indebtedness in full upon acceleration. If we are unable to refinance our debt upon acceleration or at scheduled maturity on acceptable terms or at all, we face the risks described in the first risk factor above. Increased debt and leverage could affect our financial position and impair our ability to make distributions to our investors. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. We have an informal policy that we will not incur indebtedness in excess of 75% of what the board of directors believes is the fair market value of our assets at any given time. In the future, however, we may re-evaluate our borrowing policies in light of then current economic conditions, relative costs of debt and equity capital, market value of our real estate assets, growth and acquisition opportunities, and other factors. Modification of this policy may adversely affect the interests of our shareholders. Additional leverage may: ·increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and ·limit, along with the possible financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and to pay distributions to our investors. 12 We could be negatively affected by the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of financing for secured multifamily rental real estate. Multifamily companies depend heavily on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to finance growth by purchasing multifamily loans. A decision by the government to eliminate Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or reduce government support for apartment mortgage loans may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multi-family communities and the value of multi-family real estate. If we enter into joint ventures or joint ownership of properties, our ability to control those joint ventures and partial interests may be limited. Instead of developing or purchasing apartment communities directly, we may invest as a co-venturer. We may also choose to sell partial interests in certain properties to co-venturers. Joint venturers may share control over the operations of the joint venture assets. The co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies, or objectives. Consequently, a co-venturer’s actions might subject property owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although we intend to seek to maintain sufficient influence upon any joint venture to achieve its objectives, we may be unable to take action without our joint venture partners’ approval, or joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, if a joint venture partner were to become bankrupt, we could become liable for that partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. Real Estate-Related Risks Our business currently operates at a loss. Between 2003 and 2013, we sold nine multifamily communities for a total of $260,838,143. From the net proceeds of these sales, we have paid cash distributions totaling $43,836,983, or $6.02 per share/unit, to our shareholders and unitholders, as well as stock dividends of $4,693,415, or $1.25 per share, to shareholders. Having sold all of our apartment communities during this period, we currently do not have any multifamily communities in our portfolio. As a result, we have experienced and continue to experience negative operating cash flow. Because land does not generate revenue, a substantial portion of our negative cash flow is due to the carrying costs (interest expense and property taxes) on our land. For these reasons, we expect to continue to generate negative operating cash flow and to operate at a loss until we are able to construct and lease up our planned multifamily communities as described elsewhere in this report. We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, rental rates, and the availability of construction financing decreases. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, when we hold land for development we may not be able to fully recover all of those costs or those costs may adversely affect our ability to develop a profitable multifamily community. 13 Real estate properties are illiquid and are difficult to sell. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which limits our ability to react quickly to adverse changes in economic or other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets depends on prevailing economic and market conditions. We may be unable to sell our properties to repay debt, to raise capital we need to fund our planned development and construction program, or to fund distributions to investors. Construction risks inherent in the development and construction of new properties could negatively affect our financial performance. We currently estimate that we will need approximately $15,314,000 of additional equity and $50,288,000 of debt to complete the construction of our Bradley Park, Northridge, and Highway 20 multifamily apartment communities. Development and construction costs may exceed our original estimates due to events beyond our control, including: ·increased costs for or any unavailability of materials or labor; ·costs of complying with new regulations imposed by the government; ·weather delays; ·increased interest costs due to rising interest rates; and ·any financial instability of the developer (Roberts Properties), general contractor (Roberts Construction) or any subcontractor. We may also be unable to complete development or construction of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expenses or construction costs and loss of rents until the property is ready for occupancy. Additionally, the time required to recoup our development and construction costs and to realize a return, if any, on those costs can be prolonged. Further, we typically enter into construction contracts on a cost plus basis. Because these contracts do not provide for a guaranteed maximum price, we must bear the entire amount of any increase in costs above the amounts we initially estimate, and these costs may be material. We face leasing risks in our planned development and construction program. The success of a multifamily development project depends in part on leasing to residents with acceptable rental rates within the lease-up period. If the multifamily communities we build are not leased on schedule and at the expected rental rates, the yields, returns, and value creation on the communities could be adversely affected. Whether or not residents are willing to enter into leases on the terms and conditions we project and on the timetable we expect will depend on a large variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. We are currently concentrated in metropolitan Atlanta, and adverse changes in economic or market conditions in Atlanta could negatively affect our financial performance and condition. All our properties are located in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, and adverse changes in economic or market conditions in this area could negatively affect our performance. These factors could include the following: ·significant increases in the unemployment rate; ·declining neighborhood values in the submarkets in which our properties are located; ·additional zoning and other regulatory conditions; ·competition from other properties; ·increasing property taxes; ·weather problems, including periods of prolonged drought; ·limited future economic growth due to judicial or other governmental action that restricts withdrawals from Lake Lanier, Atlanta’s primary water supply; and ·price increases for materials or labor. 14 Deteriorating general economic or social conditions or any natural disasters in the metropolitan Atlanta area could materially and adversely affect the value of our portfolio, our results of operations, and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and to make distributions to our investors. We face conflicts of interest because of our business dealings with our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates. Our business practice is to retain Roberts Properties to develop our properties and Roberts Construction to construct our properties. Mr. Charles S. Roberts owns all of the equity interests in these two companies. We have in the past acquired properties from Mr. Roberts or his affiliates, and we may sell properties to Roberts Properties or an affiliate of Roberts Properties. Although each agreement between Roberts Realty or the operating partnership on one hand and Roberts Properties or its affiliates on the other hand must be approved by our audit committee and the independent members of our board of directors, conflicts of interest inherent in these business transactions could result in our paying more for property or services than we would pay an independent seller or provider (or receiving less than we would receive from an independent buyer). These agreements and transactions have not had and will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties. These business relationships also expose us to the following risks, among others: ·the possibility that the Roberts Companies might incur severe financial problems or even become bankrupt; ·the possibility that the Roberts Companies may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or ·the possibility that the Roberts Companies may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Further, Mr. Roberts may face conflicts of interest in dealing with lenders who have made loans both to us and to private entities he owns or controls. We face substantial competition. All of our properties are located in developed areas where we face substantial competition from other properties and from other real estate companies that own or may develop or renovate competing properties. The substantial number of competitive properties and real estate companies in our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain and increase occupancy levels and rental rates, and to attract creditworthy residents. As a result, these factors could materially and adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio, our results of operations, our ability to pay amounts due on our mortgage debt, and our ability to pay distributions to our investors. The ability of our potential residents to buy single-family homes could adversely affect our revenues from the multifamily communities we develop and construct. Our multifamily communities have historically competed with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily communities, single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single-family homes. The affordability of owner occupied single-family homes caused by low mortgage interest rates may adversely affect our ability to retain our residents, lease multifamily units, and increase or maintain our rental rates. We expect the desire and ability of prospective residents to purchase a single-family home to continue to be a substantial competitive risk. 15 Changes in market or economic conditions may affect our business negatively. General economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect real property income and capital appreciation. Losses from natural catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance on our properties, which we believe is customary in amount and type for real property assets. We intend to obtain similar coverage for properties acquired in the future. Some losses of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods or high winds, may be subject to limitations. We may not be able to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Further, our insurance costs could increase in future periods. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value of the lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. Our business depends on key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and key personnel. We face substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Roberts, could have an adverse effect on us. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our executive officers or key personnel. Our real estate assets may be subject to further impairment charges. We have recorded non-cash impairment losses on a number of our assets, and we may have to record additional impairment losses in the future. Although we believe we have applied reasonable estimates and judgments in determining the proper classification of our real estate assets, these estimates require the use of estimated market values, which are difficult to assess. If changes in circumstances require us to adjust our valuation assumptions for our assets, we could be required to record additional impairment losses. Any future impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which we record the impairment losses. Our exploration of potential strategic alternatives may be unsuccessful. We continue to explore potential strategic alternatives for the company. These alternatives could include a sale, merger, or other business combination. We caution that there can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction, or that, if completed, any transaction will be on attractive terms. If we acquire apartment communities as we plan, these communities may not achieve anticipated results. We may selectively acquire apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: ·an acquired community may fail to achieve expected occupancy and rental rates and may fail to perform as expected; and ·our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate, causing us to fail to meet our financial goals. 16 Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth. We may from time to time make acquisitions or commence development activity outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience primarily in metro Atlanta does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets. These risks include, among others: ·an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment market conditions and local economies; ·an inability to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; ·an inability to hire and retain key personnel in those markets; and ·lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. Terrorism could impair our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Attacks that directly affect one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and impair our ability to achieve the results we expect. Our insurance coverage may not cover losses caused by a terrorist attack. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Tax Risks Our company may fail to qualify for REIT status under federal income tax laws. Our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes depends upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis various qualification tests, through actual annual operating results, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership, and organizational requirements for REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes since our inception in 1994, and we plan to continue to meet the requirements to qualify as a REIT in the future. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. We cannot guarantee, therefore, that we have qualified or will continue to qualify in the future as a REIT. The determination that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes requires an analysis of various factual matters that may not be totally within our control. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new decisions that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions of the Internal Revenue Code did not apply, we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, leaving less money available for distributions to investors. In addition, distributions to shareholders in any year in which we failed to qualify would not be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Failing to qualify as a REIT would also eliminate our requirement to make distributions to shareholders. We would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless we were entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions. We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to such statutory relief. Our failure to qualify as a REIT likely would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our common stock. 17 Our operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Management believes that our operating partnership qualifies, and has qualified since its formation in 1994, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. We can provide no assurance; however, that the IRS will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. In addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case shareholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive. We may declare and distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock, as we did in December 2008 and January 2009. Taxable shareholders receiving those dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to those dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock that the shareholder receives as a dividend to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. In addition, the trading price of our stock would experience downward pressure if a significant number of our shareholders sold shares of our stock to pay taxes owed on dividends. A redemption of units is taxable. Holders of units in the operating partnership should keep in mind that redemption of units will be treated as a sale of units for federal income tax purposes. The exchanging holder will generally recognize gain in an amount equal to the value of the common shares received, plus the amount of liabilities of the operating partnership allocable to the units being redeemed, less the holder’s tax basis in the units. It is possible that the amount of gain recognized or the resulting tax liability could exceed the value of the shares received in the redemption. Environmental and Other Legal Risks We may have liability under environmental laws. Under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. Therefore, we may have liability with respect to properties we have already sold. If environmental problems arise, we may have to take extensive measures to remedy the problems, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions to our investors because: ·we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination; 18 ·the law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination; ·even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and ·governmental entities or other third parties may sue the past or present owners or operators of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products and the failure to remediate that contamination properly may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell, or lease an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. We face risks in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we could be subject to regulatory action or other litigation, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Since 2007, we have been required to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as those standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may be unable to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other similar laws could result in substantial costs. A number of federal, state, and local laws and regulations (including the Americans with Disabilities Act) may require modifications to existing buildings or restrict certain renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons and may require other structural features that add to the cost of buildings under construction. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access for disabled persons. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial, and restrictions on construction or completion of renovations may limit implementation of our strategy in certain instances or reduce overall returns on our investments, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay distributions to investors and to pay our mortgage debt as required. 19 Risks for Investors in Our Stock We do not pay regular quarterly dividends, and we do not anticipate making distributions to investors for the indefinite future, other than possibly to preserve our REIT status if so required. Unlike other REITs that pay regular quarterly dividends, we have not paid a quarterly dividend since the third quarter of 2001, and we presently have no plans to resume paying regular quarterly dividends. Since 2001, we have paid distributions only from the net cash proceeds of property sales. In light of our negative cash flow from operations, we will pay distributions only (a) from the net cash proceeds of a property sale or (b) if we need to do so to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The market price of our stock is subject to fluctuation as a result of our operating results, the operating results of other REITs, and changes in the stock market in general. The daily trading volume of our common stock on the NYSE MKT exchange has historically been relatively light, and the market price may not reflect the fair market value of our common stock (or our net asset value) at any particular moment. Prior sales data does not necessarily indicate the prices at which our common stock would trade in a more active market. The market value of our common stock may or may not reflect the market’s perception of our operating results, the potential for growth in the value of our properties as we develop and construct multifamily communities, the potential for future cash dividends from property sales, and the real estate market value of our underlying assets. In addition, general market conditions or market conditions of real estate companies in general could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Additional issuances of equity securities may dilute the investment of our current shareholders. Issuing additional equity securities to finance future developments and acquisitions instead of incurring additional debt could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. Our ability to execute our business and growth plan depends on our access to an appropriate blend of capital, which could include a line of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, equity financing, or joint ventures. Restrictions on changes of control could prevent a beneficial takeover for investors. A number of the provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company. In particular, to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must comply with various requirements and avoid various prohibited events. A company cannot be a REIT if, during the last half of a taxable year, more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is owned by five or fewer individual shareholders, taking into account certain constructive ownership tests. To help the company comply with that test, our articles of incorporation provide in substance that (a) Mr. Roberts cannot own more than 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (b) no other person can own more than 3.7% of our outstanding common stock. These provisions, which are intended to limit the ownership of our common stock by five persons to no more than 49.8% of our outstanding shares, have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws have other provisions that have or may have the effect of deterring a takeover of the company, including: ·our classified board of directors, which may render more difficult a change in control of the company or removal of incumbent management, because the term of office of only one-third of the directors expires in a given year; 20 ·the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock; ·provisions in the articles of incorporation to the effect that no transaction of a fundamental nature, including mergers in which the company is not the survivor, share exchanges, consolidations, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the company, may be effectuated without the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters of the votes entitled to vote generally in any such matter; ·provisions in the articles of incorporation to the effect that they may not be amended (except for certain limited matters) without the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters of the votes entitled to be voted generally in the election of directors; ·provisions in the bylaws to the effect that they may be amended by either the affirmative vote of three-quarters of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of the directors, or the affirmative vote of a majority of the company’s directors then holding office, unless the shareholders prescribed that any such bylaw may not be amended or repealed by the board of directors; ·Georgia anti-takeover statutes under which the company may elect to be protected; and ·provisions to the effect that directors elected by the holders of common stock may be removed only by the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 75% of all of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 21 