Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Inflation may affect our ability to keep pricing almost all of our merchandise at 99.99¢ or less Our ability to provide quality merchandise for profitable resale primarily at a price point of 99.99¢ or less is subject to certain economic factors which are beyond our control. Inflation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, especially given the constraints on our ability to pass on incremental costs due to wholesale price increases or other factors. A sustained trend of significantly increased inflationary pressure could require us to abandon our customary practice of pricing our merchandise primarily at no more than 99.99¢, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the minimum wage has increased or is scheduled to increase in multiple states and local jurisdictions and there is a possibility that Congress will increase the federal minimum wage. We can pass price increases on to customers to a certain extent, such as by selling smaller units for the same price and increasing the price of merchandise presently sold at less than 99.99¢, but there are limits to the ability to effectively increase prices on a sufficiently wide range of merchandise in this manner while rarely exceeding a dollar. In certain circumstances, we have discontinued and may continue to discontinue some items from our offerings due to vendor wholesale price increases or availability, which may adversely affect sales. We offer selected items priced above 99.99¢ and we believe that we have additional opportunities to expand our selection of these items. However, an expanded offering of over 99.99¢ items may not gain customer acceptance, which could damage our brand name and harm our revenues and profitability. We are dependent in part on new store openings for future growth Our ability to generate growth in sales and operating income depends in part on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores both within and outside of our existing markets and to manage future growth profitably. Our strategy depends on many factors, including our ability to identify suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiate leases or purchases with acceptable terms, refurbish stores, successfully compete against local competition and the increasing presence of large and successful companies entering or expanding into the markets in which we operate, gain brand recognition and acceptance in new markets, and manage operating expenses and product costs. In addition, we must be able to hire, train, motivate, and retain competent managers and store personnel to support our growth. Many of these factors are beyond our control or are difficult to manage. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our goals with respect to growth. Any failure by us to achieve these goals on a timely basis, differentiate ourselves and obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract and retain management and other qualified personnel, and effectively manage operating expenses could adversely affect our future operating results and our ability to execute our business strategy. A variety of factors, including store location, store size, local demographics, rental terms, competition, the level of store sales, availability of locally sourced merchandise, locally prevailing wages and labor pools, distance and time from existing distribution centers, local regulations, and the level of initial advertising, influence if and when a store becomes profitable. Assuming that planned expansion occurs as anticipated, the store base will include a portion of stores with relatively short operating histories. New stores may not achieve the sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins historically achieved at existing stores. If new stores on average fail to achieve these results, planned expansion could decrease overall sales per estimated saleable square foot and store-level operating margins. Increases in the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with the opening of new stores could also contribute to a decrease in operating margins. New stores opened in existing and in new markets have in the past and may in the future be less profitable than existing stores and/or may reduce retail sales of existing stores, negatively affecting same-store sales. As we expand, differences in the available labor pool and potential customers could adversely impact us. Current economic conditions and other economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance and other aspects of our business by negatively impacting our customer’s disposable income or discretionary spending, increasing our costs of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses, and adversely affecting our sales or profitability. We believe many of our customers are on fixed or low incomes and generally have limited discretionary spending dollars. Any factor that could adversely affect that disposable income would decrease our customer’s spending and could cause our customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, and a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. Factors that could reduce our customers’ disposable income include but are not limited to a further slowdown in the economy, a delayed economic recovery, or other economic conditions such as increased or sustained high unemployment or underemployment levels, reduction and/or cessation of unemployment benefit payments, inflation, increases in fuel or other energy costs and interest rates, lack of available credit, consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws. Many of the factors identified above that affect disposable income, as well as commodity rates, transportation costs (including the costs of diesel fuel), costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, lease costs, measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors, also affect our cost of goods sold and our selling, general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect our sales or profitability. We have limited or no ability to control many of these factors. 12 Table of Contents In addition, many of the factors discussed above, along with current global economic conditions and uncertainties, the potential for additional failures or realignments of financial institutions, and the related impact on available credit may affect us and our vendors and other business partners, landlords and service providers in an adverse manner including, but not limited to, reducing access to liquid funds or credit, increasing the cost of credit, limiting our ability to manage interest rate risk, increasing the risk of bankruptcy of our vendors, landlords or counterparties to, or other financial institutions involved in, the Credit Facilities and our derivative and other contracts, increasing the cost of goods to us, and other adverse consequences which we are unable to fully anticipate or control. Our operations are concentrated in California As of January 31, 2014, 245 of our 343 stores were located in California (with 46 stores in Texas, 34 stores in Arizona and 18 stores in Nevada). We expect that we will continue to open additional stores in as well as outside of California. For the foreseeable future, our results of operations will depend significantly on trends in the California economy and its legal/regulatory environment. Declines in retail spending on higher margin discretionary items and continuing trends of increasing demand for lower margin food products may negatively impact our profitability. California has also historically enacted minimum wages that exceed federal standards (and certain of our cities have enacted “living wage” laws that exceed State minimum wage laws) and California typically has other factors making compliance, litigation and workers’ compensation claims more prevalent and costly. Additional local regulation in certain California jurisdictions may further pressure margins. We identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements During fiscal 2013 management identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, one of which affected our financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2012 and September 29, 2012. The material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting during these periods related to accounting for debt financing was such that controls were not adequately designed to properly account for the repricing transaction of the original First Lien Term Loan Facility in accordance with the requisite accounting guidance. We identified a second material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for stock-based compensation. We did not correctly evaluate the accounting treatment for certain share repurchase rights with respect to shares underlying stock options granted to our executive officers and employees and for former executive put rights that became exercisable in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. In addition, we identified a third material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to inventory valuation. Specifically, we determined that the inventory valuation methodology that we applied in prior periods had resulted in an accumulated overstatement over prior periods in total inventory of $13.3 million at the Merger date, and that our related controls were not adequately designed to yield the correct cost complement for valuing inventory. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Although we have remediated these material weaknesses, we can provide no assurance that our remediation efforts will be effective or that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls or any difficulties that may be encountered in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of those financial statements. Material damage to, or interruptions to, our information systems as a result of external factors, staffing shortages and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations We depend on information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. Such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. Any material interruptions or the cost of replacements may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We also rely heavily on our information technology staff. If we cannot meet our staffing needs in this area, we may not be able to maintain or improve our systems in the future. Further, we still have certain legacy systems that are not generally supportable by outside vendors, and should those of our information technology team who are conversant with such systems leave, these legacy systems could be without effective support. 13 Table of Contents We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems. The software programs supporting many of our systems are maintained and supported by independent software companies. The inability of these companies to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs might disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. We rely on proprietary systems and these systems may not support our growth plans. Our decision to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) software platform may cost more than expected and could interrupt operational transactions during the implementation We depend on a variety of information systems for our operations, many of which are proprietary, which have historically supported many of our business operations such as inventory and order management, shipping, receiving, and accounting. Because most of our information systems consist of a number of internally developed applications, it can be more difficult to upgrade or adapt them compared to commercially available software solutions. We are currently in the process of migrating our operations from our legacy proprietary system to SAP’s enterprise resource planning software, which includes integrated financial and inventory management systems. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these core systems, including accurately capturing data and possible supply chain and vendor payment disruptions. In addition, this process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Although we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation, we can make no assurances that we will not have disruptions, delays and/or negative business impacts from this forthcoming deployment. Any operational disruptions during the course of this process, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system, or in the performance of our legacy systems could materially and adversely affect our ability to effectively run and manage our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to manage our inventory, pay our vendors and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis, which could be impaired while we are making these enhancements. Even if the implementation proceeds as planned, the cost of the system could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could materially and adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. If our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time, to key decision makers, the ability to manage our business could be disrupted and the results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, while we have spent considerable efforts to plan and budget for the implementation of the system, changes in scope, timeline or cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts, and global political events could cause temporary or permanent distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory, or decrease customer traffic, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance The occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods and tsunamis, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our vendors are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. These events could result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers or a significant number of stores, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas vendors, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores, and disruption to our information systems. Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance Our insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to employment practices, acts of war, employee, blackouts and certain other crime and some natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis. If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation and general liability programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the third quarter of transition fiscal 2014, we recorded an increase to our workers’ compensation accrual of $38.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in severity of workers’ compensation claims. We have begun implementing action plans to reduce the frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims against us, however there can be no assurance that such frequency or severity will decrease over time. Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are effectively self-insured for property losses up to the amount of our deductibles. If we experience a greater number of these losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We self-insure a portion of our health insurance program that may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance We self-insure a portion of our employee medical benefit claims. The liability for the self-funded portion of our health insurance program is determined actuarially, based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. We maintain stop loss insurance coverage to limit our exposure for the self-funded portion of our health insurance program. Liabilities associated with these losses include estimates of both claims filed and losses incurred but not yet reported. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly field, store and distribution center managers, while controlling labor costs, as well as other labor issues, could adversely affect our financial performance Our future growth and performance depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, many of whom are in positions with historically high rates of turnover such as field managers and distribution center managers. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to many external factors, including competition for and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, health and other insurance costs, and changes in employment and labor laws (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union) or other workplace regulation (including changes in “entitlement” programs such as health insurance and paid leave programs). To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. In addition, we are evaluating the potential future impact of recently enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which will likely cause our healthcare costs to increase. While the significant costs of the healthcare reform legislation will occur after 2013, if at all, due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant negative effect on our business. Our ability to pass along labor costs to our customers is constrained by our low price model. We could experience disruptions in receiving and distribution Our success depends upon whether receiving and shipments are processed timely, accurately and efficiently. As we continue to grow, we may face increased or unexpected demands on warehouse operations, as well as unexpected demands on our transportation network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments from distribution centers that are increasingly further away will increase transportation costs and may create transportation scheduling strains. The very nature of our closeout business makes it uniquely susceptible to periodic interruptions and difficult to foresee warehouse/distribution center overcrowding caused by spikes in inventory resulting from opportunistic closeout purchases. Such demands could cause delays in delivery of merchandise to and from warehouses and/or to stores. We periodically evaluate new warehouse distribution and merchandising systems and could experience interruptions during implementations of new facilities and systems. A fire, earthquake, or other disaster at our warehouses could also hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly because much of our merchandise consists of closeouts and other irreplaceable products. We also face the possibility of future labor unrest that could disrupt our receiving, processing, and shipment of merchandise. We depend upon our relationships with vendors and the availability of closeout merchandise Our success depends in large part on our ability to locate and purchase quality closeout merchandise at attractive prices. This supports a changing mix of name-brand and other merchandise primarily at or below 99.99¢ price point. We cannot be certain that such merchandise will continue to be available in the future at wholesale prices consistent with our business plan and/or historical costs. Further, we may not be able to find and purchase merchandise in necessary quantities, particularly as we grow, and therefore require a greater quantity of such merchandise at competitive prices. Additionally, vendors sometimes restrict the advertising, promotion and method of distribution of their merchandise. These restrictions in turn may make it more difficult for us to quickly sell these items from inventory. Although we believe our relationships with vendors are good, we typically do not have long-term agreements or pricing commitments with any vendors. As a result, we must continuously seek out buying opportunities from existing vendors and from new sources. There is increasing competition for these opportunities with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores, and various other companies and individuals as the extreme value retail segment continues to expand outside and within existing retail channels. There is also a trend towards consolidation among vendors and vendors of merchandise targeted by us. A disruption in the availability of merchandise at attractive prices could impair our business. 15 Table of Contents We purchase in large volumes and our inventory is highly concentrated To obtain inventory at attractive prices, we take advantage of large volume purchases and closeouts. As a result, we carry high inventory levels relative to our sales and from time to time this can result in overcrowding in our warehouses and place stress on our distribution operations as well as the back rooms of our retail stores. This can also result in inventory shrinkage due to spoilage if merchandise cannot be sold in the anticipated timeframes. Our store and warehouse inventory, net of allowance, approximated $206.2 million and $201.6 million at January 31, 2014 and March 30, 2013, respectively. We periodically review the net realizable value of our inventory and make adjustments to our carrying value when appropriate. The current carrying value of inventory reflects our belief that we will realize the net values recorded on the balance sheet. However, we may not do so, and if we do not, this may result in overcrowding and supply chain difficulties. If we sell large portions of inventory at amounts less than their carrying value or if we write down or otherwise dispose of a significant part of inventory, cost of sales, gross profit, operating income, and net income could decline significantly during the period in which such event or events occur. Margins could also be negatively affected should the grocery category sales become a larger percentage of total sales in the future, and by increases in shrinkage and spoilage from perishable products. In addition, we offer selected items priced above 99.99¢ and we believe that we have additional opportunities to expand our selection of these items. If we cannot sell these items above 99.99¢ in the volumes that we expect this could further exacerbate the foregoing risks. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt trade names that dilute the value of our brand name We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademark in each jurisdiction in which we do business. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our brand recognition, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. We face strong competition We compete in both the acquisition of inventory and sale of merchandise with other wholesalers and retailers, discount and deep-discount stores, single price point merchandisers, mass merchandisers, food markets, drug chains, club stores and other retailers. We also compete for retail real estate sites. In the future, new companies may also enter the extreme value retail industry. It is also becoming more common for superstores to sell products competitive with our product offerings. Additionally, we currently face increasing competition for the purchase of quality closeout merchandise, and some of these competitors are entering or may enter our traditional markets. Also, as we expand, we may enter new markets where our own brand is weaker and established brands are stronger, and where our own brand value may have been diluted by other retailers with similar names, appearances and/or business models. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and buying power than we do, as well as nationwide name-recognition and organization. Our ability to compete will depend on many factors including the ability to successfully purchase and resell merchandise at lower prices than competitors and the ability to differentiate ourselves from competitors that do not share our price and merchandise attributes, yet may appear similar to prospective customers. We also face competition from other retailers with similar names and/or appearances. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors in both the acquisition of inventory and the sale of merchandise. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. A significant change in, or noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. We routinely incur costs in complying with these regulations. New laws or regulations, particularly those dealing with healthcare reform, hazardous waste, product safety, and labor and employment, among others, or changes in existing laws and regulations, especially those governing the sale of products, may result in significant added expenses or may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and/or could materially increase our cost of doing business. In addition, such changes or new laws may require the write off and disposal of existing product inventory, resulting in significant adverse financial impact to us. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations or untimely or incomplete execution of a required product recall can result in the imposition of penalties, including loss of licenses or significant fines or monetary penalties, in addition to reputational damage. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, vendors, competitors, shareholders, government agencies and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required. The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify and the cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” 16 Table of Contents We face risks associated with international sales and purchases International sales historically have not been important to our overall net sales. However, some of our inventory we purchase from domestic vendors is manufactured outside the United States, primarily China and we expect to directly source an increasing portion of our products from outside of the United States. Because we expect a larger percentage of our merchandise to be manufactured or sourced abroad, we will be required to order these products further in advance than would be the case if these products were manufactured domestically. International transactions may be subject to risks such as: · political or financial instability or disputes; · lack of knowledge by foreign manufacturers of or compliance with applicable federal and state product, content, packaging and other laws, rules and regulations; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and local economic conditions, including inflation; · uncertainty in dealing with foreign vendors and countries where the rule of law is less established; · raw material shortages, factory consolidations, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; · risk of loss due to overseas transportation; · import and customs review can delay delivery of products as could labor disruptions at ports; · changes in import and export regulations, including “trade wars” and retaliatory responses; · changes in tariff, import duties and freight rates; and · testing and compliance. The United States and other countries have at times proposed various forms of protectionist trade legislation. We are subject to trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell as well as to raw material imported to manufacture those products. We may also be subjected to additional duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import, or the loss of import privileges if we or our vendors are found to be in violation of U.S. laws and regulations applicable to the importation of our products. Our and our vendors’ compliance with the regulations is subject to interpretation and review by applicable authorities. Any changes in current tariff structures or other trade policies or interpretations could result in increases in the cost of and/or store level reduction in the availability of certain merchandise and could adversely affect our ability to purchase such merchandise and our operations. In addition, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the Chinese renminbi, could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. The pricing of our products in our stores may also be affected by changes in foreign currency rates and require us to make adjustments which would impact our revenue and profit. Disruptions due to labor stoppages, strikes or slowdowns, or other disruptions involving our vendors or the transportation and handling industries also may negatively affect our ability to receive merchandise and thus may negatively affect sales. Prolonged disruptions could also materially increase our labor costs both during and following the disruption. Significant increases in wages or wage taxes paid by contract facilities may increase the cost of goods manufactured, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and profitability. For example, the costs of labor and wage taxes have increased in China, which means we are at risk of higher costs associated with goods manufactured in China. These and other factors affecting our vendors and our access to products, including the supply of our imported merchandise or the imposition of additional costs of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales or profit. As we increase our imports of merchandise from foreign vendors, the risks associated with foreign imports will increase. We have potential risks regarding our store physical inventories Although we have a perpetual inventory system in our warehouses, we currently do not have a perpetual inventory system in our stores. Furthermore, physical inventories in all existing stores are not performed at the end of each fiscal period, and there are additional processes and procedures surrounding store physical inventories that we believe need to be improved. In particular, we have identified that certain personnel managing or performing store physical inventories need additional training in order to consistently follow our physical inventory processes and procedures, and properly document the physical inventory results. We have increased our excess and obsolete inventory reserves and we are in the process of implementing an SAP system throughout the Company, including all retail stores. In anticipation of this implementation, we have initiated additional training for store employees and new physical inventory procedures. Our failure to adequately reserve for excess and obsolete inventory or our inability or failure to effectively implement these measures on our expected timeframe, or at all, or otherwise to not continue to improve our physical inventory processes and procedures could have a materially adverse effect on our store physical inventory results, shrinkage and margins. This in turn could materially affect our ability to timely complete our financial reporting obligations and our financial condition and results or operations. 17 Table of Contents We could encounter risks related to transactions with affiliates Prior to the Merger, we leased 13 store locations and a parking lot associated with one of these stores from the Rollover Investors and their affiliates, of which 12 stores were leased on a month to month basis. In connection with the Merger, we entered into new lease agreements for these 13 stores and one parking lot. Although the terms negotiated were acceptable to us, we cannot be certain that terms negotiated are no less favorable than a negotiated arm’s length transaction with a third party. We rely heavily on our executive management team and changes in our management team could adversely affect our business strategy, performance and results of operations We have historically relied heavily on the continued service of our executive management team. Effective January 23, 2013, Eric Schiffer, Jeff Gold and Howard Gold separated from their positions as Chief Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President of Special Projects, respectively. Richard Anicetti and Michael Fung were appointed Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, respectively, and served from January 23, 2013 until September 3, 2013 and September 23, 2013, respectively. Stéphane Gonthier was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Parent on September 3, 2013. Competition for skilled and experienced management personnel is intense, and we may be unable to identify, hire and effectively integrate new members of management into senior positions on our anticipated timeframe or at all, which could disrupt our business. Moreover, these and any other changes in management could result in changes to, or affect the execution of, our business strategy, which could adversely affect our performance and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate and may be affected by seasonal buying patterns Historically, we have experienced higher net sales and higher operating income during the quarters that have included the Halloween, Christmas and Easter selling seasons. If for any reason our net sales were to fall below norms during the Halloween, Christmas and/or Easter selling seasons, it could have an adverse impact on profitability and impair the results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Transportation scheduling, warehouse capacity constraints, supply chain disruptions, adverse weather conditions, labor disruptions or other disruptions during peak holiday seasons could also affect net sales and profitability for the fiscal year. In addition to seasonality, many other factors may cause the results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These factors, some beyond our control, include the following: · the number, size and location of new stores and timing of new store openings; · the distance of new stores from existing stores and distribution sources; · the level of advertising and pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; · the integration of new stores into operations; · the general economic health of the extreme value retail industry; · changes in the mix of products sold; · increases in fuel, shipping merchandise and energy costs; · the ability to successfully manage inventory levels and product mix across our multiple distribution centers and our stores; · changes in personnel; · the expansion by competitors into geographic markets in which they have not historically had a strong presence; · fluctuations in the amount of consumer spending; and · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the growth of the business and our ability to uniformly capture such costs. · the timing of certain holidays, such as Easter and Halloween. 18 Table of Contents During fiscal 2013 there were two Easter selling seasons that occurred in early April 2012 and in late March 2013, compared to no Easter selling season in transition fiscal 2014. We could be exposed to product liability, food safety claims or packaging violation claims We purchase many products on a closeout basis, some of which are manufactured or distributed by overseas entities, and some of which are purchased by us through brokers or other intermediaries as opposed to directly from their manufacturing or distribution sources. Many products are also sourced directly from manufacturers. The closeout nature of certain of these products and transactions may impact our opportunity to investigate all aspects of these products. We attempt to ensure compliance, and to test products when appropriate, but there can be no assurance that we will consistently succeed in these efforts. Despite our best efforts to ensure the quality and safety of the products we sell, we may be subject to product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products, including food products that are recalled, defective or otherwise alleged to be harmful. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, such claims could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. We have or have had, and in the future could face, labeling, environmental, or other claims, from private litigants as well as from governmental agencies. Our litigation expenses could increase as well, which also could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued. We face risks related to protection of customers’ banking and payment card data, as well as other data related to our employees, customers, vendors and other parties In connection with payment card sales and other transactions, including bank cards, debit cards, credit cards and other merchant cards, we process and transmit confidential banking and payment card information. Additionally, as part of our normal business activities, we collect and store sensitive personal information, related to our employees, customers, vendors and other parties. We are required to comply with specific data security standards that apply to payment card information, and we have certain procedures and technology in place to protect such data, but third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this information, and our security measures and those of our banks, merchant card processing and other technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. We are subject to environmental regulations Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, current or previous owners or occupants of property may face liability associated with hazardous substances. These laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to fault. In the future, we may be required to incur substantial costs for preventive or remedial measures associated with hazardous materials. We have several storage tanks at our warehouse facilities, including: an aboveground an underground diesel storage tank and a compressed natural gas tank at the City of Commerce, California main warehouse; ammonia storage tanks at the Southern California cold storage facility and the Texas warehouse; aboveground diesel and propane storage tanks at the Texas warehouse; an aboveground propane storage tank at the main Southern California warehouse; and an aboveground propane storage tank at our leased Slauson distribution center in the City of Commerce, California. Except as disclosed in Item 3. Legal Matters, we have not been notified of, and are not aware of, any potentially material current environmental liability, claim or non-compliance. We could incur costs in the future related to owned properties, leased properties, storage tanks, or other business properties and/or activities. In the ordinary course of business, we handle or dispose of commonplace household products that are classified as hazardous materials under various environmental laws and regulations. We have adopted policies regarding the handling and disposal of these products, but we cannot be assured that our policies and training are comprehensive and/or are consistently followed, and we are still potentially subject to liability under, or violations of, these environmental laws and regulations in the future even if our policies are consistently followed. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) is focusing on several broad-based convergence projects, including accounting standards for financial instruments, revenue recognition and leases. In August 2010, the FASB issued an exposure draft outlining proposed changes to current lease accounting under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) in FASB Accounting Standards Codification 840, “Leases.” In May 2013, the FASB issued a new exposure draft. The comment period for the new exposure draft ended on September 13, 2013. Currently, substantially all of our leased properties are accounted for as operating leases with limited related assets and liabilities recorded on our balance sheet. The proposed new accounting pronouncement, if ultimately adopted in its proposed form, could result in significant changes to our current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off balance sheet as operating leases. While this change would not impact the cash flow related to our store leases, we would expect our assets and liabilities to increase relative to the current presentation, which may impact our ability to raise additional financing from banks or other sources in the future. The guidance as proposed may also affect the future reporting of our results from operations as both income and expense on leases previously accounted for as operating leases would be front-end loaded as compared to the existing accounting requirements. However, even if the new guidance is adopted as proposed, certain incurrence ratios and other provisions under the Indenture (as defined below) and under the Credit Facilities permit us to account for leases in accordance with the existing accounting requirements. As a result, our ability to incur additional debt or otherwise comply with such covenants may not directly correlate to our financial condition or results from operations as each would be reported under GAAP as so amended. 19 Table of Contents Impairment of our goodwill or our intangible assets could negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity A substantial portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of our net assets is less than its carrying amount. Testing for impairment involves an estimation of the fair value of our net assets and other factors and involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of our net assets to fall below its carrying amount, including those described elsewhere in this Report. If we have an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, the amount of any impairment could be significant and could negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity for the period in which the impairment charge is recorded. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness and lease obligations, which could affect our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness and may otherwise restrict our activities Our total indebtedness, as of January 31, 2014, was $855.4 million, consisting of borrowings under our First Lien Term Facility of $605.4 million and $250 million of Senior Notes. We have an additional $175 million of available borrowings under our ABL Facility and, subject to certain limitations and the satisfaction of certain conditions, we are also permitted to incur up to an aggregate of $100 million of additional borrowings under incremental facilities in our ABL Facility and First Lien Term Facility. We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of January 31, 2014, our minimum annual rental obligations under long-term operating leases for fiscal 2015 are $59.7 million. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Senior Notes and our Credit Facilities. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; · requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facilities, are at variable rates of interest; · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the Indenture and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; · restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; · imposing restrictions on the operation of our business that may hinder our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities or to grow our business; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures (including real estate acquisitions and store expansion), debt service requirements and general corporate or other purposes, which could be exacerbated by further volatility in the credit markets; and · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors who are less leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. 20 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries are still able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and our Credit Facilities each contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness. However, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. We have an additional $175 million of available borrowings under our ABL Facility. Subject to certain limitations and the satisfaction of certain conditions, we are also permitted to incur up to an aggregate of $100 million of additional borrowings under incremental facilities in our ABL Facility and First Lien Term Facility. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify and could have a negative impact on our credit rating. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and additional interest, if any, on, our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of the indentures governing the Senior Notes and our Credit Facilities or any future debt instruments that we may enter into may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Our Credit Facilities and the Indenture contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our Parent’s (solely with respect to our Credit Facilities) and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; · pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; · make certain investments; · transfer or sell certain assets; · create or incur liens; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and · enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions, and, in the case of our Credit Facilities, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the ABL Facility. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Credit Facilities. If the lenders under our Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Facilities as well as our other indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. 21 Table of Contents Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly Borrowings under our Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income and cash flow, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. Although during the quarter ended June 30, 2012 (the “first quarter of fiscal 2013”), we entered into interest rate cap and swap agreements to hedge the variability of cash flows related to our floating rate indebtedness, these measures may not fully mitigate our risk or may not be effective. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 