ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors, in addition to those listed here. We have set forth additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Risks Relating to Our Business•The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are unpredictable and may adversely affect the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophic events affecting multiple policyholders, which can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, fires, explosions, earthquakes, tropical storms and terrorist acts. Property damage resulting from catastrophes is the greatest risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our 14Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011business. We have exposure for catastrophe losses under both our commercial insurance policies and our personal insurance policies. In addition, our automobile and inland marine business exposes us to losses arising from floods and other perils.Longer-term weather trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change; a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, including effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperature, sea levels, rain and snow. The emerging science regarding climate change and its connection to extreme weather events is far from conclusive. If a connection to increased extreme weather events related to climate change is ultimately proven true, this could increase the frequency and severity of catastrophe losses we experience in both coastal and non-coastal areas.Because the occurrence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may vary significantly from year to year, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations. In addition, as with catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for us to determine our ultimate losses associated with a particular catastrophic event. As our claims experience for a particular catastrophe develops, we may be required to adjust our reserves to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. Catastrophes may also negatively affect our ability to write new business. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property could impact claims severity for future catastrophic events. In addition, severity may increase after catastrophic events, as the demand for resources such as building materials and labor to repair damaged structures may inflate costs, and the amount of salvage value received for damaged property may decline.•Our reserves for property and casualty insurance losses and costs related to settlement of property and casualty insurance losses and our life insurance reserves for future policy benefits may be inadequate, which would have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our reserves for claims and future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate, which may result in future charges to earnings and/or a downgrade of our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish property and casualty insurance loss reserves based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. On a quarterly basis, Regnier, the independent actuary for our property and casualty insurance segment, estimates property and casualty insurance product reserves based on many assumptions to validate the reasonableness of our claims reserves.Our property and casualty insurance loss reserves are only estimates; we determine the amount of these loss reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and costs we will incur on existing insurance policies. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot precisely determine the ultimate amounts of benefits and claims that we will pay or the timing of payment of benefits and claims. For a detailed discussion of our reserving process and the factors we consider in estimating reserves, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Actual losses and loss settlement expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our loss reserves are insufficient, or if we believe our loss reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and loss settlement expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves and incur charges to our earnings, which could indicate that premium levels were insufficient. These charges may be material. Griffith, the independent actuary for our life insurance segment, calculates life insurance product reserves based on our assumptions, including estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in a material adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.15Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011•The cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance business may affect our financial performance.The financial results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “soft” markets), followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (commonly referred to as “hard” markets). We expect these cycles to continue. Premium rates for property and casualty insurance are influenced by factors that are outside of our control, including market and competitive conditions and regulatory issues. Soft market conditions could require us to reduce premiums, limit premium increases, or discontinue offering one or more of our insurance products in one or more states, resulting in a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases. Fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on the results of our operations and financial condition.•We are subject to interest rate fluctuations and declines in the value of investments held in our investment portfolio due to various market factors that could negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations and to declines in the value of our investment portfolio, due to changes in market valuations and changes in credit quality related to individual investments. Some of our interest-sensitive products, principally our fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” which is the difference between the rates we are required to pay under these contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments, intended to support our obligations under these contracts.During periods when the interest rates paid on interest-sensitive insurance products are rising, we may not be able to reinvest our invested assets to achieve the higher rate of return necessary to compensate for the higher interest rates we must pay to keep these products competitive in the marketplace. Consequently, we may have to accept a lower spread and therefore lower profitability, or face a decline in sales of these products and a loss of related assets. During periods of declining interest rates, we may be unable to achieve similar rates of return on our maturing assets. Moreover, this risk may be exacerbated by borrowers prepaying fixed income securities, commercial mortgages, and mortgage-backed securities held in our investment portfolio in order to refinance at lower rates. Because we are only entitled to reset the interest rates on our annuities at limited, pre-established intervals, and because many of our annuity contracts have guaranteed interest rates, the profitability of these products could decrease or become negative. Due to the reinvestment risk described above, a decline in market interest rates available on investments could also reduce our return from investments of capital that do not support particular policy obligations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The adverse effect on us from fluctuations in interest rates may be exacerbated because we currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, a large portion (93.4 percent at December 31, 2011) of our investment portfolio in fixed income securities, particularly corporate bonds, including our portfolio of trading securities. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates. We classify the majority (99.4 percent, at December 31, 2011) of our fixed income securities, including our entire portfolio of trading securities, as available-for-sale. We report the value of those investments at their current fair value. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the valuation of our fixed income investments, which would affect our stockholders' equity.Fluctuations in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals from our life insurance and annuity products. In periods of rising interest rates, surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with policy loans, may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. These surrenders, withdrawals and policy loans may also require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses in the current period. Terrorism and the threat of terrorism within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions, and heightened 16Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011security measures, may cause significant volatility in the equity markets and in interest rates. Such activities may result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets or changes in interest rates caused by these activities.The fair value of securities in our investment portfolio may also fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions or events relating to a particular issuer of securities. Changes in the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio could result in realized or unrealized investment losses, thereby affecting our stockholders' equity.We are exposed to the chance that issuers of bonds that we hold will not be able to pay principal or interest when due. Defaults and other impairments may cause write-downs in the value of the bonds we hold. Pervasive deterioration in the credit quality of issuers, changes in interest rate levels and changes in interest rate spreads between types of investments could significantly affect the value of our invested assets and our earnings. •Continued difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over the slow economic recovery, level of U.S. national debt, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and global capital markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively impacted the U.S. economy. These concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade. Although liquidity has improved, the market for fixed income instruments continues to experience some price volatility, credit downgrade events and elevated probabilities of default. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Our investment portfolio contains various types of municipal bonds that expose us to the risk of default.At December 31, 2011, 25.3 percent of our total investment portfolio at fair value, and 27.5 percent of our total fixed maturity investments at fair value, were invested in municipal bonds that are primarily tax-exempt. During or following an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could adversely impact the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. •Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on our business and reputation.Our business and operations rely on secure and efficient processing, storage and transmission of customer and Company data, including personally identifiable information. Our ability to effectively operate our business depends upon our ability and the ability of certain third parties, including vendors and business partners, to access our computer systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and 17Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011processing premiums, administering claims, and reporting our financial results. Our business and operations also depend upon our ability to safeguard personally identifiable information and other confidential and proprietary information belonging to us and our policyholders. Our systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hackers, computer viruses, and other scenarios in which our data may be compromised.Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in our facilities, networks or databases, or those of our vendors may occur, exposing us to liability and having an adverse impact on our business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of our data could harm our reputation, which could affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurances that we will be able to implement security measures adequate to prevent every security breach.•The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues and class action litigation on our business are uncertain.As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and/or size of claims. Examples of these issues include:•Judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability.•An increase of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation regarding claims handling and other practices.•An increase in the variety, number and size of claims relating to liability losses, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions.•Adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressure in medical cost and auto and home repair costs.•We are exposed to credit risk in certain areas of our operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents, brokers and reinsurers.In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the amounts due from independent agents and brokers.We are exposed to credit risk through our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our bonded principal will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder.We are exposed to credit risk with respect to our purchase of reinsurance. See the discussion in the risk factor titled “Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely manner, or at all,” for a discussion of the credit risk associated with our reinsurance program.To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk during a period of economic downturn. While we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to credit risk could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.18Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011•We are subject to comprehensive state laws and regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the states in which we operate. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is, and will continue to be, critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of regulations that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following:•Required licensing. Our insurance company subsidiaries, operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to revoke an existing license or deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to continue to sell insurance or to enter or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired.•Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. When our loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may resist or delay our efforts to raise premium rates in the future, even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to premium rate increases. If premium rate increases we deem necessary are not approved, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. State regulatory authorities may even impose premium rate rollbacks or require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, affecting our profitability. If insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state could be substantially impaired.•Restrictions on cancellation, nonrenewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company's ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance agencies. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. For example, the State of Louisiana has a law prohibiting the nonrenewal of homeowners policies written for longer than three years except under certain circumstances, such as for nonpayment of premium or fraud committed by the insured.•Risk-based capital and capital adequacy requirements. Our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate, are subject to risk-based capital requirements that require us to report our results of risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. Any failure to meet applicable risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us or our subsidiaries and affiliate to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation.•Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between us, our subsidiary insurance companies and our affiliates generally must be disclosed to, and in some cases approved by, state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently.•Required participation in guaranty funds and assigned risk pools. Certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations where participating insurers are required to provide coverage for assigned risks. The number of risks assigned to us by these plans is based on our share of total premiums written in the voluntary insurance market for that state. Pricing is controlled by the plan, often restricting our ability to charge the premium rate we might otherwise charge. Wherever possible, we utilize a designated servicing carrier to fulfill our obligations under these plans. Designated servicing carriers charge us fees to issue policies, adjust and settle claims and handle administrative reporting on our behalf. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired premium rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. While these facilities are 19Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, the exposure to assessments and our ability to recoup these assessments through adequate premium rate increases may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period, due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These state funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.•Restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of investments. The various states in which we operate have certain restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and concentration of our investments. Generally speaking, these regulations require us to be conservative in the nature and quality of our investments and restrict our ability to invest in riskier, but often higher yield investments. These restrictions may make it more difficult for us to obtain our desired investment results.•State and federal tax laws. Under current federal and state income tax law, our life insurance and annuity products receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give these products a competitive advantage over other noninsurance products. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products, making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies.•Terrorism Risk Insurance. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 ("TRIPRA")requires the federal government and the insurance industry to share in insured losses up to $100 billion per year resulting from future terrorist attacks within the United States. For further information about TRIPRA and its effect on our operations, refer to the information in the Results of Operations section in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These laws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely premium rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets and otherwise continue to operate our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face individual, group and class action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks could have a negative effect on our profitability. •A reduction in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based on criteria established by the agencies. Our property and casualty insurers have been assigned a financial strength rating of "A" (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1994; except for one insurance subsidiary that is in a run-off status, which A.M. Best has designated as NR-3 (Rating Procedure Inapplicable). Prior to Mercer Insurance Group's acquisition by us, it was rated "A" (Excellent) by A.M. Best since 2001. Our life insurance subsidiary has been assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best since 1998. Our property and casualty insurance companies are rated on a group basis. Financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agency. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or could lead to increased borrowing costs in 20Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011the future. Perceptions of the Company by investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired.We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends on our ratings by this agency. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and policyholders to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If A.M. Best downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we will not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our premium revenue and earnings would decrease. For example, many of our agencies and policyholders have guidelines that require us to have an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” or higher. A reduction of our A.M. Best ratings below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to a portion of our current policyholders or other potential policyholders with similar ratings requirements. •Market conditions may affect our access to and the cost of reinsurance and our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely manner, or at all. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of the risk that we and our insurance company subsidiaries and affiliate underwrite. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions that are beyond our control. The availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase may affect the level of our business and profitability. Although we purposely work with several reinsurance intermediaries and reinsurers, we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable premium rates. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophic events within one policy year. Because our current catastrophe reinsurance program only allows for one automatic reinstatement at an additional reinstatement premium, we would be required to obtain a new catastrophe reinsurance policy to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Such coverage may be difficult to obtain, particularly if it is necessary to do so during hurricane season following the second catastrophe. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk will increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we will have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Our ability to collect reinsurance recoverables may be subject to uncertainty. Our losses must meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance agreement. Reinsurers must also have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance agreement or program. Particularly, following a major catastrophic event, our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.•Our geographic concentration in both our property and casualty insurance and life insurance segments ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions of certain states. The following states provided 49.8 percent of the direct statutory premium written for the property and casualty insurance segment in 2011: Texas (12.9 percent), Iowa (12.7 percent), California (10.6 percent), Missouri (7.3 percent) and Louisiana (6.3 percent). The following states provided 71.0 percent of the direct statutory premium written for the life insurance segment in 2011: Iowa (29.7 percent), Minnesota (11.9 percent), Illinois (10.2 percent), Nebraska (9.6 percent), and Wisconsin (9.6 percent). Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized natural perils, such as hurricanes or hailstorms, is increased in those areas where we have written a significant amount of property insurance policies.21Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011•We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and reduce our revenue and profitability. The insurance industry is highly competitive. In our property and casualty insurance business and in our life insurance business, we compete, and will continue to compete, with many major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and smaller regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies, and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have far greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our premium revenue and our profitability could decline if we lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. Our profitability could also be affected by the entry of new competitors into the market and the development of new products by new and existing competitors.We price our insurance products based on estimated profit margins, and we would not be able to significantly reduce our current estimated profit margins in the near future. Some of our competitors may be larger and have more capital than we do, and may be able to withstand significant reductions in their profit margins. If our competitors decide to target our policyholder base by offering lower-priced insurance, we may not be able to respond competitively, which could reduce our revenue and our profitability. •Our business depends on the uninterrupted operations of our facilities, systems and business functions.Our business depends on our employees' ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal policies and claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our facilities or a failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions.In the event that a natural disaster or a terrorist act occurs, our company and employees could be directly adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event. We have an emergency preparedness plan that consists of the information and procedures required to enable rapid recovery from an occurrence, such as natural disaster or business disruption, which could potentially disable us for an extended period of time. This plan was successfully tested during 2008, both by the Midwest flooding that affected our corporate headquarters in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and by Hurricane Ike that affected our Gulf Coast regional office in Galveston, Texas.•Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital.Although capital market conditions have improved, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets.We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, in the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we have entered into a $100.0 million revolving unsecured credit facility that we can access. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity.22Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011•If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products, or that any new products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements, and, as a result, our business could suffer. •We are unable to predict the impact on us of the new federal financial regulatory reform.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in July, 2010, expands the federal presence in insurance oversight. The Dodd-Frank Act's requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and nonadmitted insurance (property or casualty insurance placed from insurers that are eligible to accept insurance, but are not licensed to write insurance in a particular state). The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury with regulatory authority over all lines of insurance except health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The Federal Insurance Office has the power to, among other things, monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the overall financial system, coordinate federal policy on international insurance matters and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. The Dodd-Frank Act provides a framework for further regulation and governance initiatives. These regulations and initiatives cover many aspects of public company governance including, but not limited to, new and enhanced executive compensation disclosures, nonbinding stockholder votes on executive compensation, new independence standards for compensation committee membership, and incentive compensation clawback policies. Because the SEC has not yet completed its required rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are unable to predict with certainty the overall impact these new regulations and initiatives will have on us. However, the cost of compliance with new regulations and initiatives could be significant, and adversely impact our results of operations, equity, business, and insurer financial strength and debt ratings.Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of Mercer Insurance GroupOn March 28, 2011, we completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the outstanding capital stock of Mercer Insurance Group for $28.25 per share in cash consideration (representing $191.5 million in total consideration).•We incurred significant costs and expenses in connection with the acquisition; the integration of Mercer Insurance Group into our business operations may result in significant expenses and accounting charges, all of which will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.During 2011, we incurred one-time transaction costs totaling $8.3 million in connection with the acquisition transaction. We expect to incur additional costs associated with the integration of Mercer Insurance Group into our business operations. In addition to one-time transaction costs, we also incurred accounting charges related to the amortization of the value of business acquired ("VOBA") asset. VOBA is being amortized in the first 12 months of 23Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011operations subsequent to the acquisition. As of December 31, 2011, the VOBA asset was $1.7 million, which will be fully amortized in the first quarter of 2012.We continue to integrate a large number of systems and functions, including management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, claims, underwriting, billing, payroll and benefits, fixed assets and lease administration, and regulatory compliance. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are impracticable to estimate. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses, the realization of economies of scale, and cost savings and revenue synergies related to the integration of the two companies. To the extent that our financial results are materially affected by additional integration-related expenses and costs, the price of our common stock could decline.•Integrating Mercer Insurance Group into our existing operations involves considerable risks and may not be successful, and we may fail to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition of Mercer Insurance Group.The integration of Mercer Insurance Group into our existing operations has been a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our existing operations if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our management is unable to minimize the potential disruption to our business during the integration process, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Realizing the benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the successful integration of technology, operations, and personnel, while maintaining adequate focus on our core businesses. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating Mercer Insurance Group, including the following, any one or a combination of which could seriously harm our results of operations, business, financial condition and/or the price of our common stock:•difficulties and delays in the integration of Mercer Insurance Group's operations, personnel, technologies, products, services, business relationships and information and other systems;•the diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of our business;•difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex, combined business;•the occurrence of adverse development of loss reserves;•contractual and/or intellectual property disputes;•lost agents, agencies or policyholders as a result of agents, agencies or policyholders of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined companies;•conflicts in agency, marketing or other important relationships;•difficulties caused by entering geographic and business markets in which we have limited or no prior experience;•acquired products and services that may not attract policyholders;•loss of key employees and disruptions among employees that may erode employee morale;•inability to implement uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and•failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity.Our operating expenses may increase significantly over the near term due to the increased number of employees, expanded operations and changes related to the acquisition. Our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected to the extent that our expenses increase but our revenues do not, there are unanticipated 24Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011expenses related to the integration process, or there are significant costs associated with presently unknown liabilities. Failure to minimize the numerous risks associated with the post-acquisition integration strategy also may adversely affect the price of our common stock.•We incurred debt as part of the acquisition transaction.As of December 31, 2011, we had a $45.0 million loan outstanding. Our ability to meet our ongoing debt service obligations under this loan will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These debt arrangements, and any restrictions included therein, may have an adverse impact on our business operations and financial results and could adversely affect the value of our common stock.•Integration of Mercer Insurance Group's information technology systems with ours may result in a loss of technical support from some information technology vendors.Since the acquisition we are working to combine our data and Mercer Insurance Group's data to a single, integrated information technology platform. This process has involved, and will likely continue to involve, terminating the existing relationship with one or more of our or Mercer Insurance Group's current information technology vendors. If the integration process does not progress smoothly or within the time frame anticipated by management, we could have difficulty receiving adequate technical support from cancelled vendors who might have little incentive to continue cooperating with us. Lack of adequate vendor technical support could also delay the technology integration process and lead to increased costs which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Risks Relating to Our Common Stock•The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations.United Fire Group, Inc. is a holding company with no significant independent operations. Its principal asset is the stock of United Fire & Casualty Company and its subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance companies. In addition, competitive pressures generally require insurance companies to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us. At times we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock, or we may be required to seek prior approval from the applicable regulatory authority before we can pay any such dividends. Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt, and make share repurchases. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on numerous factors, including our financial condition, our capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant.•The price of our common stock may be volatile.The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: •Variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results.•Investor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and the Company in particular.•Market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market.25Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011•Major catastrophic events.•Departure of key personnel.•Certain provisions of our organizational documents, as well as applicable insurance laws, could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management, prevent the sale of the Company or prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the direction of the Company, each of which could diminish the value of our common stock.Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable laws governing corporations and insurance companies, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of the Company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example:•Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our stockholders, our stockholders have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual stockholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors.•Our articles of incorporation limit the rights of stockholders to call special stockholder meetings.•Our articles of incorporation set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors at nine and the maximum at 15, and they require approval of holders of 60.0 percent of all outstanding shares to amend these provisions. Within the range, the Board of Directors may increase by one each year the number of directors serving on the Board of Directors.•Our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of 60.0 percent of all outstanding shares to approve any plan of merger, consolidation, or sale or exchange of all, or substantially all, of our assets.•Our Board of Directors may fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.•Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. •Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10.0 percent or more of our common stock.•Section 490.624A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act authorizes the terms and conditions of stock rights or options issued by us to include restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the exercise, transfer, or receipt of such rights or options by a person, or group of persons, owning or offering to acquire a specified number or percentage of the outstanding common shares or other securities of the corporation.Further, the insurance laws of Iowa and the states in which our subsidiary insurance companies are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring direct or indirect control of us or our insurance company subsidiaries, generally defined as owning or having the power to vote 10.0 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, without the prior written approval of state regulators. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and these state laws governing corporations and insurance companies, may discourage potential acquisition proposals. These provisions and state laws may also delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, in particular through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or the Company's management may be unsuccessful, and the existence of such provisions may adversely affect market prices for our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts.26Table of ContentsUnited Fire Group, Inc. Form 10-K | 2011ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.