D. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any of the following factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company’s management, or that the Company’s management currently thinks are immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. The Company’s operations are based in Indonesia, which has been subject to economic and socio-political disruption in the past. Some parts of Indonesia have experienced social, ethnic and economic disruption. In November 1999, the Company abandoned its cultivation site in Kupang, W. Timor in part due to increasing unrest in the area. The province of West Papua, where some of the Company’s water leases are located, is agitating for independence. The Company monitors the socio-political situation closely. In the event of civil unrest, there is an evacuation plan in place to protect the Company’s employees. Security personnel are employed to provide protection to employees and the Company’s assets to the best of their ability. It is difficult to predict what will occur in the future. If the employees are forced to abandon any of the farm projects as a result of an emergency, the Company does not expect it will be able to salvage any of the oysters or pearls and this will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and financial condition. The cultivation process for South Sea pearls requires certain environmental conditions and any change in weather or water conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s pearl production. The cultivation process depends on certain environmental factors, including consistently warm sea water temperature, fully saline water conditions, adequate tidal flow to distribute the food supply and availability of phytoplankton food. There are only a few areas in the world that meet such requirements. The water areas encompassed by the Company’s water leases present ideal conditions for pearl cultivation. The conditions in these areas, however, are subject to change based on normal weather patterns. The Company has no control over these weather patterns. In 2002, weather patterns caused by El Niño adversely affected the Company’s ability to raise juvenile oysters. The Company established operations in Northern Bali primarily for the production of juvenile oysters in response to this problem. Notwithstanding this action, the Company anticipates that its rearing of oysters will continue to be affected by natural weather patterns. If these weather patterns continue, there can be no assurances that the Company will have access to sources of oysters for the pearl cultivation process or if available, that they will be available on favorable terms. The failure to maintain an adequate supply of juvenile oysters for nucleation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s pearl cultivation process. 7 The Company’s oysters are sensitive to disease. The Company’s oysters are placed in panels in the sea. Although, the Company’s employees continuously clean the oysters, certain foreign organisms can enter the oyster and eat the oyster or cause diseases. The cultivation process for pearls takes approximately two years from the time the oyster is seeded. Prior to the oyster being seeded, it takes two years for the animal to reach maturity. Therefore, the loss of oysters due to disease could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s production process and generation of revenue. This is particularly relevant in Juvenile oysters under 12 months of age. The sale of pearls is dependent upon a strong economy. The sale of pearls is sensitive to fluctuations in the global economic cycle. Pearls are categorized as a luxury item and their consumption is dependent upon the availability of discretionary income. Consumption is strongly influenced by fashion trends. The Company’s South Sea pearls compete with other types of pearls as well as other types of jewelry such as precious metals and precious gem stones for consumer disposable income. Unfavorable general economic conditions can have an adverse effect on consumer spending for such items, which would affect the Company’s sales. The price for pearls is subject to fluctuation based on supply. The price that the Company can obtain for its pearls is significantly dependent on the overall supply of available pearls and the quality of the Company’s pearls. In the ten year period up to 2004, there was an increase in the supply of pearls globally. Most of the increase in South Sea pearl production came from Indonesia and the Philippines, and there is evidence of increased production from Australia. This increase in supply had an adverse effect on pearl prices, but the potential adverse impact of continued increases in supply cannot be determined with any certainty. There has also been an increase in supply of fresh water pearls from China and black pearls from Tahiti. Significant increases in the supply of pearls or decreases in the quality of the Company’s pearls could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. The price of pearls is subject to quality. Although the Company takes all steps possible to ensure that its farming procedures meet best practice, the procedure of a pearl is a natural process. The price of a pearl depends on the quality characteristics of shape, color, size, skin quality and lustre. A deterioration in pearl quality from diseases, poor farming practice or environmental factors would adversely affect pearl prices and revenue for the Company. The Company is dependent on a small number of key expatriate managers. The Company’s cultivation process is very technical. The Company depends on a small number of key expatriate managers who supervise the cultivation process. Due in part to the remote location of the Company’s pearl farms, the Company has limited access to a skilled work force, and the replacement of these managers could be difficult. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could materially and adversely affect the Company’s pearl production, business and financial condition. 8 The Company is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates. The majority of the revenues the Company derives from the sale of its pearls occurs in Japanese Yen. The Company’s revenues are reported, however, in Australian Dollars. Fluctuation in the exchange rate of Japanese Yen to the Australian Dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. The Company’s operating expenditures are predominantly denominated in Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”). Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the IDR and the Australian Dollar will have an affect on the operating results of the Company. The Company is exposed to the volatile inflation rate in Indonesia. Inflation in Indonesia has varied up to 17.9% per annum for the period from 2003 to 2006. The official inflation rate in Indonesia at the end of 2006 was 6.6% per annum. In general, inflation increases all of the Company’s operating costs in Indonesia, but specifically impacts wages, food and fuel (diesel and benzene). As the Company’s revenues are derived mostly from sources outside of Indonesia, the Indonesian inflation rate does not cause a corresponding increase in the Company’s revenues. As a result, Indonesia’s inflation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s expense structure. ITEM 4. INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY A. History and Development of the Company The Company is incorporated as a public company in Australia and operates under the Corporations Act 2001. On May 30, 2006, the Company changed its name from Atlas Pacific Limited to Atlas South Sea Pearl Limited to better reflect its business activities. This change in name was made effective on June 9, 2006. The Company operates under an Australian Company Number ("ACN”) 009 220 053 and an Australian Business Number ("ABN") 32 009 220 053. The Company is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (“ASX”), which is governed by the ASX Listing Rules. The Company’s domicile is Australia and its registered office and principal place of business are 43 York Street, Subiaco Western Australia 6008 (telephone: +61 8 9380-9444, facsimile: +61 8 9380-9970). The Company was incorporated on February 28, 1987 as Atlas Pacific Gold N.L. for the purpose of acquiring all of the capital stock in Sharcon Pty Ltd, (“Sharcon”), a company that owned options to acquire mineral and precious metal mining tenements. In June 1987, the Company raised A$5 million through an initial public offering in Australia and, shortly thereafter, listed its shares on the ASX. The Company used the proceeds from this offering to acquire the stock of Sharcon and to explore mining tenements from 1987 through 1988. The Company never commenced mining, and between 1988 and 1993 sold its mining interests and investigated other potential business opportunities. The Company did not generate revenue from its mining operations and has since disposed of all its mining interests and no longer pursues mineral exploration activities. In 1993, the Company invested in the Indonesian pearling project (the “Pearling Project”) through its subsidiary Tansim Pty Ltd (“Tansim”), with a number of other joint ventures. The Pearling Project operates an oyster hatchery and farm business for the purpose of cultivating South Sea pearls. (See “Business Overview - Pearling).” On January 20, 1994, the Company changed its status from a No Liability (N.L.) company to a company limited by shares and changed its name to Atlas Pacific Limited. 9 PT Cendana Indopearls (“Cendana”), an Indonesian-approved foreign investment company, owns and operates the Pearling Project. The Company originally acquired a 75% interest in the Pearling Project by purchasing all of the capital stock of Tansim, an Australian corporation, in June 1993. Tansim purchased the remaining 25% interest in Cendana in October 1999. The Company’s principal focus remains on pearl production in Indonesia. As of December 31, 2006, 72% (A$16.3 million) of the Company’s total assets were employed in Indonesia, principally in oyster stocks, plant and equipment. The Company’s remaining assets are made up of pearls, cash and receivables, predominantly in Australia. During the last and current fiscal years, the Company did not receive an indication of any public takeover offers by third parties in respect of the Company’s Shares or by the Company in respect of other companies’ shares. B. Business Overview - Pearling Introduction A pearl is a lustrous concretion produced by certain bivalve mollusks, including mussels and oysters. Natural pearls consist almost entirely of nacre, which is the substance forming the inner layers of the mollusk shells. Nacre, also referred to as mother-of-pearl, is composed primarily of aragonite crystals. The pearl is an abnormal growth resulting from the invasion of the body of the mollusk by foreign matter, or “nucleus”. The foreign body acts as an irritant in the mollusk and becomes coated with layer upon layer of nacreous material. Up to 30% of cultivated mollusks will reject the nucleus and do not produce pearls. Both marine and freshwater mollusks produce pearls, and the most commonly used mollusk for the production of pearls is the oyster. There are several types of pearls cultivated around the world. The four major categories of cultured pearls are (1) Akoya pearls produced in the seas around China and Japan, (2) freshwater pearls produced mainly in China, (3) South Sea pearls produced primarily in Australia, Indonesia, Philippines, and Myanmar, and (4) black pearls produced in Tahiti and several other Pacific Islands nations. Prices of pearls vary enormously. There are several factors which determine the value of a pearl. These factors include size, shape, color, skin quality and luster. As the size and other characteristics of a pearl improve, its value increases exponentially. With respect to shape, the most valuable pearls are spherical. Drop and button shapes are less valuable than spherical pearls, but are still considered to be quality pearls. Circles and irregular shaped pearls, or baroques, are the least valuable shapes of pearls. Pearl coloration varies widely, with the most valuable shades being gold and silver. South Sea pearls may be silver, white, cream, yellow or gold. The Pinctada maxima oyster is the species which produces the South Sea pearl. There are two varieties of this oyster. The silver lip variety produces the valuable silver-white pearl and the gold lip variety produces cream, yellow and highly sought after gold colored pearls. 10 The final significant determinant of pearl value is skin quality and luster. The less blemishes and “pit” marks the greater the value of the pearl. Luster refers to the appearance of a pearl’s surface judged by its brilliance and ability to reflect light. The greater the luster, the more valuable the pearl. Pearl Cultivation Pearls have been cultured successfully since 1920 using a process developed in Japan in which the oysters are “nucleated” or “seeded.” In this process, a nucleus is introduced into the oyster and the oyster then deposits layers of nacre around the bead. This process takes approximately two years for South Sea pearls. Today, cultured South Sea pearls are not easily distinguished from naturally occurring pearls, which are extremely rare. Pearl cultivation traditionally relied on the availability of wild oysters, which were nucleated to form pearls. However, hatchery-reared oysters have become an increasingly popular means of cultivating pearls. By using hatchery-reared oysters, pearl farmers are able to control oyster breeding to improve the quality of the oysters that will be nucleated. This, in turn, produces higher quality pearls. Ideal conditions for the Pinctada maxima oyster, which produces the South Sea pearl, exist in certain select regions of the world’s equatorial and tropical waters located 20 degrees north and south of the equator between Myanmar in the west and Northern Australia and the Indonesian province of West Papua (formerly Irian Jaya) in the east. Indonesia lies in the middle of this region. These regions provide the following natural environmental factors necessary to cultivate pearls: the availability of phytoplankton food upon which the filter feeding oysters rely; adequate tidal flow to distribute the supply of food; warmer sea water temperatures without abrupt fluctuations of more than a few degrees and fully saline, as opposed to brackish, water conditions. The South Sea Pearl Industry Australia has historically had the most successful producers of South Sea pearls in terms of quality. The bulk of Australian pearls are produced in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. Australian state governments manage the industry on a quota system, with a total permitted annual catch of 572,000 wild oysters shared among sixteen pearl licenses in Western Australia. In addition to this, beginning in 1992, Western Australian license holders became entitled to seed an additional 350,000 hatchery produced oysters. The quota is not divided equally, and the largest pearling operators controls over 50% of the quota. Family groups or small partnerships tightly control the licenses. In 1998, the authorities in the Northern Territory also issued six pearling licenses for a total permitted annual seeding limit of 420,000 seedings for wild and hatchery produced oysters. Although the technology is available to introduce hatchery programs in Western Australia, high production costs, particularly labor costs, have limited the development of such programs. In addition, Western Australia recently extended its quota system to embrace hatchery-reared oysters in addition to wild shells. Because of the fixed quota system and restrictive hatchery policy, expansion opportunities for Australian pearl producers are limited. The only way to increase profitability for Australian pearl producers is through improvement in pearl quality or reduction in costs of production. Thus, the Australian pearling industry is virtually closed to new participants unless they are prepared to acquire an existing operation. 11 By comparison, the pearling industry in Indonesia and the Philippines is relatively unregulated. Although there are a few farmers in these regions capable of producing quantities of pearls equal to the largest Australian operations, there are a lot more pearl producers, many with small operations. Due to a lesser abundance of wild oysters and lower labor costs, there is much heavier emphasis on hatchery breeding programs in S.E. Asia than in Australia. Production has grown substantially in the last decade and Indonesia now produces approximately the same volume of pearls as Australia with the Philippines third in terms of pearl production by volume. The value of such production, however, is less than that of Australia due to the lower quality and size of the pearls. The Indonesian pearling industry is significantly less regulated than in Australia and technological improvements in the Indonesian cultivation processes are taking place. The Company believes that the pearling conditions in Indonesia offer some advantages to those in Australia. The waters are warmer for a longer period of time, which facilitates a longer growing season for the pearls. The faster growing conditions, however, result in a less consistent result for pearls produced from an oyster that is re-seeded after the first pearl is harvested. This results in less high quality large pearls being produced by the Company. There is also less variation in water temperature throughout the year, which means that seeding of oysters and harvesting of pearls can take place over a longer period of time each year. The Company has overcome the inferior quality of most of the other Indonesian pearl producers by investing in research and development projects to improve its breeding and farming techniques. The Indonesian government continues to encourage foreign investment. Foreign investment entities are required to use an investment structure known as a “PMA” company, which offers investors, among other things, tax concessions and remissions on duty of essential imports. Likewise, Indonesia does not levy sales tax on exported products, which includes the Company’s pearls. There can be no assurances, however, that the economic or political environment for pearl production in Indonesia will remain stable or that the Indonesian government will maintain favorable investment vehicles for foreign investments. The Company still believes that the overall advantages of running its operations in Indonesia as compared to Australia, outweigh the disadvantages of operating in Indonesia. 12 The Pearling Project General In 1990, a group of joint venture parties, of which Tansim was a party, commissioned an extensive marine review and survey to locate the best possible pearl farm site within a narrow belt of equatorial waters centered on the Indonesian Islands and Northern Australia. Based on the results of this study, they chose a location for the pearl farm at Lelindo Point near the town of Kupang in West Timor, Indonesia in 1991. They acquired water leases, constructed pearling infrastructure and commenced commercial operations. During 1998, the Kupang area became a less desirable location for the Company’s operations due to an increase in local industry which caused pollution and because of increased security threats. The Company began to develop facilities at Waigeo Island, in the province of West Papua. By the end of January 1999, the Company had reduced its operations at the Kupang facility to hatchery and grow-out facilities only. The majority of the nucleated oysters were successfully transported to the Company’s new pearl farm at Waigeo Island during 1999. In November 1999, the Company decided to close down the Kupang facility and concentrate its resources on its pearl farming activities at the Company’s newer facility in West Papua. In 1997, Cendana entered into water leases for approximately 2,500 hectares at Alyui Bay, Waigeo Island, West Papua (formerly known as Irian Jaya) in northern Indonesia. Cendana also entered into a land lease for five hectares near these water leases. The leases are for 25 years and expire in September 30, 2022. The Company developed the site as a pearl farm and hatchery. See “Item 4.D Information on the Company - Property, Plant and Equipment.” Alyui Bay on the island of Waigeo in West Papua, proved to be a successful pearl farming site. The Company commenced commercial pearl harvests at this site in 1999, with an excellent quality of pearls being produced. Significant infrastructure was developed at Alyui Bay including three accommodation camps, a modern hatchery, engineering workshop, fuel storage, operating shed and boat building facilities. The farm accesses some of its labor force from two nearby villages while in excess of 150 staff are accommodated at the three farm camps in fully equipped facilities. During 2002, the adverse impact of the El Nino climatic phenomenon on the production of juvenile oysters at Alyui Bay required the Company to explore opportunities to source oysters elsewhere. In July 2002, the Company entered into an arrangement with an Indonesian company called PT Horiko Abadi (“Abadi”), which allowed it to have access to a hatchery and associated sea leases at a location called Banyupoh on the Indonesian island of Bali. The Company paid A$90,000 to Abadi for access to this facility for a period of three (3) years. This Agreement was terminated in September 2005. Under this contract, Abadi remained the owner of the land and water leases, but the Company had a right to operate from this site and share the output (juvenile oysters) from this operation in the ratio of 30% to Abadi and 70% for the Company’s Indonesian subsidiary. The Company was required to contribute 70% of the ongoing operating costs of this facility, which was approximately A$15,000 per month. Equipment from the original Kupang hatchery was re-commissioned for use at this facility at minimal cost. In September 2005, the Company established its own hatchery and growout farm at Penyabangan, N. Bali. 13 During 2003, the Company entered into a second joint production arrangement for juvenile oysters with an Indonesian company called Cahaya Cemerlang (“Cemerlang”). Cemerlang granted the Company shared access to leases and facilities which consisted of over 100 hectares of ocean leases and two camps covering a combined area of four hectares which were located around Bacan Island in the North Maluku province of Indonesia. In return for access to these facilities, the Company had to provide Cemerlang with a share of juvenile production from that site. This share was calculated on the basis of an equal split if the juveniles that were produced were taken by Cemerlang from this facility before the oysters reached 12 months of age or a split of 30% to Cemerlang and 70% to the Company if the oysters were taken from this site after they turned 12 months of age. During 2003, over 400,000 juvenile oysters were successfully reared. The Company’s share of this production was over 200,000 juvenile oysters. Due to a high level of juvenile oyster mortality, only 110,000 juvenile oysters were successfully reared from this facility during 2004. The joint arrangement was for five years, and the Company had an option to extend the term thereafter for five (5) years on similar terms. Because this site continuously experienced high levels of oyster mortalities, the use of the site as a source of juvenile oysters had became severely restricted. As a result, the Company reached an agreement with Cemerlang to cease the joint operations by the end of November 2005. Juvenile oysters from the 2004/05 hatchery breeding season were split in accordance with the agreement. All joint assets were also divided between the Company and Cemerlang. The Company’s share of the oysters and assets were transferred to Karang Asem in East Bali, which it established in 2005. In December 2003, the Company leased an independent juvenile production and grow-out site in Northern Bali near the village of Penyabangan. The Company entered into a 30-year lease in relation to 0.2 hectares of land and one hundred hectares of ocean with the local authorities with payments of approximately A$15,000 paid up front and A$200 payable per month for the term of the lease. The Company has the right to construct buildings on the land and use the ocean for the production and rearing of pearl oysters. A hatchery center and related support infrastructure for the Company’s boat maintenance/building, seeding technician training, longline production and support activities was completed during 2004. The Company transitioned its activities at the Banyupoh facility Abadi venture to this hatchery in September 2005. Hatchery production and grow-out of juvenile oysters at Penyabangan has proven to be successful and the Company further expanded the site in 2005. This facility can accommodate approximately 500,000 oysters. The Company’s transport vessel, the “Sahabat,” delivers oysters from Penyabangan to Alyui Bay. Combined production at Alyui Bay and Penyabangan allowed seedings in excess of 375,000 oysters in 2006. The hatchery at Penyabangan has ensured successful Juvenile production for the Company since its development in 2004. In May, 2005, the Company expanded its operations in Bali by opening a new farm site at Karang Asem on Bali’s east coast and establishing a pearl oyster lease on Nusa Lambongan Island in the south of Bali. On May 23, 2005, the Company entered into a 30-year water lease comprising 235 hectares (580 acres) and a land lease for an additional 2,000 square meters with the local villagers who have ownership of the area. Under the lease, the Company paid the local villagers approximately A$16,000 and will pay approximately A$200 per month for the use of the site. The Company has constructed storage, accommodations and oyster meat processing facilities at the site, which was established for the purpose of farming pearls. On September 16, 2005, the Company entered into a water lease with local village leaders on Nusa Lembongan Island in the south of Bali. This lease comprises a water area of 157 hectares (388 acres), which will be used to grow pearls. There is no fixed term for the water lease. The Company paid approximately A$2,700 to the local villagers and there are ongoing costs of A$180 per month paid to local villagers for the continued use of the water lease. There is no associated land lease for this facility as the Company has an agreement with PT Bali Cruises Nusantara (“Bali Hai Cruises”) to use its land for storage of equipment. Apart from the obvious benefit of providing a viable alternative source for pearl production to the main pearling center of Alyui Bay, the facilities at Karang Asem and Nusa Lambongan, with their close proximity to Denpasar, its ready and available workforce, and its cheaper infrastructure costs, have great potential to reduce the Company’s cost of pearl production. 14 The Company established a joint hatchery operation in West Lombok in 2005 to replace the Bacan Island Project (Cemerlang venture). The initial term of the unexecuted joint operation agreement with PT Autore Cultured Pearls was for one year. In July 2006, this was extended for another year on the same terms as the original agreement. This facility comprises a small hatchery, generator facilities, storage and some accommodations on land along with 125 hectares (309 acres) of ocean-based farm. Under the terms of the agreement, Cendana contributes half of the costs of operating the facility and splits the cost of any capital items purchased during the term of the arrangement equally with its partner. In exchange, the joint partner and Cendana are entitled to an equal share of all pearl oysters produced as this facility. The Company now produces all of its juvenile oysters in its Penyabangan, Bali and Lombok facilities. The Company has transformed the Alyui Bay project from a fully integrated operation covering all the pearl production stages from hatchery to harvest to a dedicated pearling center concentrating on seeding and husbandry of high quality mature pearl oysters. This is delivering an improved result in terms of productivity (seeding rates are higher than any prior year) and post-seeding results with a higher retention rate of nuclei being experienced than in prior periods. Many of the non-essential support tasks such as boat building and long-line manufacture have been transferred to the lower cost center of Penyabangan. In addition to pearl oysters being produced in Penyabangan and transported to Alyui Bay, almost 57,000 were seeded in Penyabangan and pearls from these oysters will be farmed at the new locations of Karang Asem and Nusa Lembongan. The Company monitors the socio-political situation in Indonesia closely. The October 2005 terrorist bombings in the Kuta and Jimbaran tourist precincts of Bali had a serious detrimental effect on tourism in Bali but no observable effect on the general business of the Company. Unrest in Kupang was one of the reasons for the closure of the Kupang facility in 1999. Indonesia continues to experience social, ethnic and economic instability. The province of West Papua where the Company’s pearling leases are located is agitating for independence. It is difficult to predict how these forces will influence the Pearling Project. The Company attempts to manage the instability in Indonesia by maintaining good relations with employees, nearby village communities, regional and provincial authorities and the community at large. The Company continues to work hard in the critical areas of government liaison, community relations and security. The Company is proud of the success it has had in improving the access of local communities to facilities such as medical care, education, transportation and better general living standards. Commitment to local communities remains a cornerstone of the Company’s corporate philosophy. In Bali the Company supported 16 underprivileged children in order that they can attend school during 2006. Likewise in West Papua, the Company continue to provide scholarships to talented local young people to attend tertiary education. These scholarship programs will continue to expand. The Company has provided key funding and resources to repair schools in both Bali and West Papua. 15 West Papua is considered an area of extreme risk in terms of the spread of HIV. During 2006, the Company sponsored the largest HIV screening and education program ever conducted in the province with the support of AusAid (Australian Aid Agency) and the regional medical authorities. The HIV awareness program will continue as an ongoing community initiative that is supported by the company. In addition to the above, the Company continues to seek ways of providing alternative employment and support for cottage industry of the most disadvantaged people within the community. It has developed a system of “piece work” for the repair of certain farm equipment (nets etc). This work is undertaken from home and is offered to the many widows, particularly on Bali’s north coast, who would otherwise find earning an income difficult due to social circumstances. In the event civil unrest threatens the Company’s farms at Waigeo Island or North Bali, there is an evacuation plan in place to protect the expatriate and Indonesian national employees. If the expatriates are forced to leave, the Company does not expect that any of the Pearling Project could be salvaged. Oyster Growth and Pearl Cultivation The cultivation of pearls is a long and labor intensive process which starts with the spawning of adult oysters during the months of August to March. Approximately two dozen adult oysters are placed in tanks in the hatchery where they spawn to produce oyster larvae. The larvae remain in the hatchery tanks where they swim and feed on algae. After approximately three weeks, the larvae stop swimming and settle on netting material located in the tank. The larvae attach themselves to the nets and continue to grow and feed on increasing amounts of algae. After about one month, the netting on which they have been growing is placed in a protective mesh and moved to the nursery in the open waters. The waters are rich in nutrients so that the juvenile oysters, or “spat,” are able to grow quickly. The netting is suspended from “long lines” strung between floats in the water. The spat are left in these net structures for approximately three to four months. As the spat continue to grow on the netting, the nursery workers start to thin out the spat and transfer them from the netting when they are large enough to be placed in steel framed panels. These panels are covered in netting that has been divided into 28 separate pockets. These panels are moved out of the nursery area to various locations of the open-water pearl farms where the spat continue to grow. By placing the spat in different locations, the Company is able to reduce the risk of losing an entire crop due to the presence of adverse conditions in any one area. After approximately a year, the spat, are too large for the 28 pocket panels and are placed into larger “eight pocket panels.” The shell remain in the eight pocket panels until they are ready to be nucleated at 21-24 months of age. 16 When the shell are ready to be nucleated, they are brought to an operations room. Technicians then perform the exacting surgical procedure of placing a nucleus in the oyster. The first step involves opening the oyster so that a nucleus can be implanted. This is accomplished by a procedure referred to as “pegging the shell.” Workers place wedge shaped pegs in the shells as they open and close during their normal feeding process. By opening the oysters in this manner instead of forcing them open, the strong muscle which holds the shell together is not torn, which is fatal to an oyster. After the oyster has been opened to a certain width, the oyster is ready for surgery. The oyster is placed in an operating cradle where technicians carefully insert a nucleus composed of a bead, made from the shell of a freshwater mussel, into the oyster. In addition, they insert a small piece of tissue, known as saibo tissue, from a “donor oyster.” This nacreous producing tissue is naturally found only on the outer mantle tissue of the oyster. This tissue is inserted at the same location as the nucleus where it encourages nacre secretion to produce a pearl. Approximately one out of every 20 oysters is used as a donor from which the nacreous producing tissue is taken. After the oysters have been nucleated, they are placed in an eight pocket panel and returned to the ocean where they are hung from the long lines. From the time of nucleation, it takes approximately two years to develop a pearl of 10 to 12 millimeters in diameter. Throughout the entire process, workers regularly clean the oysters, the panels and the long lines because naturally occurring marine growth will compete with the oysters for nutrients. In addition, foreign organisms can enter the oysters and either eat the oysters or cause disease. Under normal conditions, up to 30% of the oysters will reject the nucleus and an additional 10% to 20% die of natural causes. The oysters are x-rayed approximately eight months after being nucleated to determine which animals have rejected the nucleus. Any oysters which reject the nucleus can be re-seeded. Sometimes the oyster will reject the nucleus but the saibo tissue is retained and a pearl forms around this. A pearl formed in this manner is called a keshi pearl. This is a “seedless” pearl and it will usually have a slightly irregular shape. The environment has enormous influence over the success of pearling. Successful pearling requires careful consideration of environmental issues and the Company strives to ensure that its activities have a minimal impact on the environment. The Company has procedures in place to mitigate any damage to the environment in the event of an accidental fuel spillage and it treats all waste in an environmentally friendly manner. It adheres strictly to the guidelines established in the environmental report it submitted to the Indonesian authorities in 2000 as part of its application to obtain a permanent operating license. Towards the end of 2001 and throughout 2002, the Alyui Bay site came under the influence of El Niño, which had a dramatic influence on the agricultural sector in Australia and parts of South East Asia. The production of juvenile oysters at Alyui Bay, the then lifeblood of the Company’s pearling operation, was severely curtailed by this event. The Company took immediate action and was able to source commercial quantities of juvenile pearl oysters through an arrangement with a third party hatchery. Alternative juvenile production facilities now exist in Bali and Lombok which has spread the Company’s geographical risk. 17 Pearl Sales and Revenue Wholesale pearl sales accounted for 91% of the Company’s revenue in 2006. The majority of the Company’s pearls are sold in the world pearl wholesale market by the independent pearl marketing and trading company, Pearlautore International (“PAI”). On October 11, 2005, the Company renewed its current agreement with PAI for a period of two years commencing on January 1, 2006. According to the terms of the agreement, PAI is appointed as the Company’s exclusive valuer and distributor of South Sea pearls. PAI is to receive a commission of between 7.5% and 25% for cleaning, grading, valuing and selling the Company’s pearls. Pearls have traditionally been sold at auction but are also increasingly offered to buyers and sold under privately negotiated arrangements. The Company’s pearls are harvested at various times during the year depending on the seeding date of the oyster. PAI’s wholesale customers are from many geographical locations, accordingly the Company does not rely on a single customer to purchase all of its pearls. The remainder of the Company’s revenue is derived from sales of jewelry, pearl shell and pearl meat by-products. A major focus for the Company in 2006 was the enhancement of its marketing skills including design and manufacture of pearl jewelry. The Company opened part of the Penyabangan site in North Bali to the visiting tourist trade during 2005 as its first exposure to the retail market. In 2006, the Company opened a second retail operation at the Company’s facility on the island of Nusa Lembongan and a third retail outlet in its premises at Sanur. Demand for the pearl shell (MOP) and pearl meat by-products have remained constant over the last 2 years. The Company now employs three senior expatriate managers in the retail and manufacturing side of the business. There are a further 12 Indonesian staff employed as retail assistants, jeweler and support staff. Competition and Markets Competition in the pearling industry is intense. The Company competes with other South Sea pearl farmers, mainly in Australia, Indonesia, the Philippines and other Southeastern Asian regions. Many of these pearlers have significantly greater financial resources and experience, and are better known than the Company. The Company also competes, although not directly because of product differentiation, with producers of less expensive types of pearls such as the Akoya, freshwater and black pearls produced in Japan, China and the South Pacific, respectively. The Company also competes for consumer disposable jewelry dollars with producers of other types of gems such as diamonds, other precious stones and precious metals such as gold. Public demand for fine jewelry, including South Sea pearls, is influenced by general economic conditions. An increase in supply of pearls globally, specifically freshwater and black pearls, has had an adverse effect on the market price of South Sea pearls. The increase in supply has also lead to a change in distribution methods within the pearl industry. Although the auction system has been relied upon for the sale of pearls in the past, this system has now been complemented with a “value adding” process where smaller quantities of more discrete pearl types and grades are sold through private negotiation. “Value added” means selecting and placing pearls in a strand or a set of jewelry. The Company expects this method of distribution where there is less reliance on the auction system to continue. The changes that are being experienced in the pearling industry are not dissimilar to those experienced in other-commodity based industries. The Company cannot predict future demand nor how great an effect increases in the supply of South Sea pearls will have on the market price for such pearls. The pearling industry and the marketing and distribution arrangements for this product are currently undergoing significant change, which is likely to result in a rationalization and restructuring of producers. We believe that the Company, with its focus being in Indonesia, is well positioned to benefit from any change because of the relatively low operating costs compared to Australian producers and its relatively high quality of production compared to most Indonesian pearl farmers. 18 Up until the last decade, approximately 90% of Australia’s South Sea pearl production was sold in Japan. This proportion has been reduced as the demand for such pearls has increased in the emerging markets of Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Europe and North America. Sales of South Sea pearls are primarily made to the gem jewelry trade. The Company offers its pearls in all the major world markets without placing too much reliance on any one geographic market. The Company’s principal markets are Japan, Hong Kong, Europe and North America. Foreign Investment Regulations in Indonesia In Indonesia, all proposed foreign investment and expansion projects require the prior approval of the BKPM, Indonesia’s equivalent of a foreign investment review board. A company may seek such approval by filing an investment plan with the BKPM, which contains information regarding the Company’s share capital, loan capital, technical assistance agreements, and proposed joint venture agreements. Under previous laws and regulations, the BKPM could require a foreign promoter of such a project to include a local joint-venture partner. In July 1993, the Company sought approval from the BKPM for participation by foreign investors in the Pearling Project. A joint venture agreement and an application to form Cendana as an approved foreign investment company, or PMA company, was lodged with the BKPM. Following approval in 1994, Cendana filed its Articles of Association with the Indonesian Ministry of Justice, which were approved in December 1994. The laws and regulations applicable to PMA companies have, at frequent intervals since 1986, progressively relaxed the restrictions that were imposed by the Indonesian Law on Foreign Capital Investment of 1967. These reform packages were intended to encourage foreign investment in Indonesia and to boost exports. In 1999, the BKPM granted permission for the Indonesian company, Cendana, to become a fully foreign-owned company. At that time, the Company acquired 100% of its Indonesian subsidiary. Foreign Trade Regulations in Indonesia In general, Indonesian government policy protects local interests. In 1990, however, the government implemented certain reforms aimed at facilitating the flow of imports and exports into and out of Indonesia. With respect to imports, the deregulation plan included the replacement of non-tariff barriers into Indonesia with tariffs. 19 There are no restrictions on the export of pearls from Indonesia and no export tax is payable. Indonesia, however, does impose a provincial “retribution tax,” which is applicable to the export of pearls. These payments amount to approximately 1.5% of the export value of pearls. Indonesia has no exchange controls; therefore, foreigners are able to move funds freely in and out of the country through accounts denominated in local or foreign currency. Government Regulation Australia The activities of the Company are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including those described herein. The Australian Corporations and Securities Legislation (“ACSL”) is the main body of law governing companies incorporated in Australia, such as the Company. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission is an Australian government instrumentality that administratively enforces the ACSL. The ACSL covers matters such as directors’ duties and responsibilities, preparation of accounts, auditor control, issue and transfer of shares, control of shareholders’ meetings, rights of minority interests, amendments to capital structure, preparation and filing of public documents such as annual reports, changes in directors and changes to capital. The Australian Stock Exchange imposes listing rules on all listed companies, such as the Company. The rules cover such issues as immediate notification to the market of relevant information, periodic financial reporting and the prior approval of shareholder reports by the Australian Stock Exchange. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the foregoing Australian laws and regulations and with the rules of the Australian Stock Exchange. Indonesia Indonesian laws require Cendana to obtain certain tax identification numbers and miscellaneous occupational licenses. Cendana has obtained all licenses from the BKPM, including its permanent operating license for the Waigeo and Bali sites. The BKPM also requires Cendana to have its accounts audited annually by an Indonesian public accountant. Cendana complies with this requirement. Indonesia maintains other laws relating to corporate governance that are similar to laws of other jurisdictions. The Company believes that Cendana is in material compliance with these laws and with other applicable Indonesian laws and regulations. Environmental approvals are issued with the operating permits for each site. These require regular reporting to authorities in relation to fuel usage for energy generation, compliance with waste emissions and any incidents that may have caused harm to the local environment. The Company is in full compliance with its environmental reporting obligations. 20 United States of America Because the Company has registered its Shares with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and listed the ADRs on the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”), the Company must comply with U.S. laws and SEC regulations applicable to foreign companies that trade their securities in the U.S., including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing requirements of Nasdaq. On June 27, 2007, the Company announced its intention to voluntarily delist its ADRs from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. When the delisting process is completed the ADRs are expected to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The delisting of the ADRs is intended to reduce the Company’s listing costs and allow it to more easily comply with U.S. listing regulations. 21 C. Organization Structure Atlas South Sea Pearl Limited owns all of the capital stock of Tansim Pty Ltd, an Australian company, which in turn owns all of the capital stock of the Indonesian company, PT Cendana Indopearls. The functional relationship of the group’s structure is described in the table below. ATLAS SOUTH SEA PEARL LTD - Australian Company Functions Assets Risks 1. Marketing of pearls - cleaning, sorting and grading. 2. General business administration 3. Financial reporting and public relations 4. Provides ongoing funding of Cendana operations 1. Marketing agreements and established marketing network. 2. Professional management and technical support with access to industry and business best practice. 3. Listed on Australian and International stock exchanges, relationships with investment brokers and banks. 1. Fluctuations in pearl market prices, fluctuations in exchange rates Yen/A$ and marketing requirements. 2. Investment in S.E. Asia and aquaculture industry; market maker and investor/banker reaction/perception of the business. TANSIM PTY LTD (100% owned by Atlas South Sea Pearl Limited) - Australian Company Functions Assets Risks 1. Holds investment in PT Cendana Indopearls 2. Provided original project finance. 1. Investment in PT Cendana Indopearls 1. Unable to recover value of investment in Cendana PT CENDANA INDOPEARLS (100% owned by Tansim Pty Ltd) - Indonesian Company Functions Assets Risks 1. Breeding/hatchery 2. Oyster farming 3. Seeding / nucleation 4. Pearl harvesting 5. Administration of operations, security, logistics, community relations. 6. Retailing 1. Operational personnel 2. Fixed assets · Boats · Farm equipment · Hatchery buildings & equipment · Nucleation equipment · Accommodation/support infrastructure 3. Jewel inventory 1. Environmental and climatic variations - spat and oyster losses. 2. Remote location - limits access to skilled workforce and emergency services, makes logistics more difficult. 3. Security and socio-political issues. 4. Limited access to capital. 5. Stock redundancy in jewelry retailing. 22 D. Property, Plants and Equipment Subiaco, W. Australia The Company rents office space, consisting of approximately 275 square meters, in the suburb of Subiaco, Western Australia, from Mr. David Morrison. The lease commenced on July 1, 2004 and had a term of three (3) years. An option to renew the lease under the same terms for three (3) additional years has been exercised and the new lease expires on June 30, 2010. The lease provides for an aggregate rental payment of A$18,000 annually, which rent is paid in equal monthly installments. The rental payment is subject to annual increases based upon fair market value. Annual rent for the year ended December 31, 2006 was A$19,123. Kupang, W. Timor On October 6, 1992, the Joint Venture (which later became PT Cendana Indopearls) entered into a 20-year lease for five hectares (12.3 acres) of land at Lelindo Point and constructed a hatchery, laboratory, administrative offices, workshop, store room and accommodations for expatriate managers. On September 4, 1994, it entered into a 10-year lease for 0.3 hectares (0.74 acres) of land located on Kambing Island overlooking the nursery. Ardindo Nusa entered into these land leases on behalf of the Joint Venture. Pursuant to the Sale Agreement, the Joint Venture agreed to transfer all assets, including the land leases, to Cendana. Accordingly, Ardindo Nusa assigned all beneficial interest in the leases and any extensions thereof to the Company. On March 10, 1993, Cendana entered into water leases, which leases were later amended. On September 4, 1995, Cendana received Presidential approval for its water leases. The various water leases are located within a four mile radius of the Kupang hatchery and total 725 hectares (2.8 square miles). The leases were for a term of 30 years. Cendana used these waters as a nursery for young oysters and as a pearl farm for the nucleated oysters prior to the closure of the Kupang facilities in December 1999. The Indonesian government owns all of the land and water upon which the Kupang pearl farm was located and leased the property to Cendana for a fee of A$8,400 per annum. All of the government leases are conditioned upon Cendana meeting certain requirements, including the development and use of the leased property for pearling operations. During November 1999, the Company decided to close the facility at Kupang. See “Item 