Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we recommend that you carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent upon PACCAR for the supply of Peterbilt trucks and parts, the sale of which generates the majority of our revenues. We currently operate as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks and parts pursuant to dealership agreements with Peterbilt, a division of PACCAR. During 2009, a significant portion of our revenues resulted from sales of trucks purchased from Peterbilt and parts purchased from PACCAR. Due to our dependence on PACCAR and Peterbilt, we believe that the long-term success of our Rush Truck Centers depends, in large part, on the following: • maintaining our relationship with PACCAR; • the manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality Peterbilt trucks and parts by PACCAR in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements; • the overall success of PACCAR and Peterbilt; • PACCAR’s continuation of its Peterbilt division; • the goodwill associated with the Peterbilt trademark, which can be adversely affected by decisions made by PACCAR and the owners of other Peterbilt dealerships; and • PACCAR and Peterbilt’s ability to offer vehicles that meet federal and state emissions requirements. We have no control over the management or operation of PACCAR or Peterbilt dealerships that we do not own. Our results of operations and financial condition have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the conditions in the credit markets and unfavorable economic conditions in the United States. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the unfavorable economic conditions in the United States, including the turbulence in the credit markets. In the commercial vehicle and construction equipment finance markets, tight credit conditions have resulted in a decrease in the availability of commercial vehicle and construction equipment loans and have led to more stringent lending restrictions. The decrease in availability of credit has adversely impacted demand for new and used construction equipment. Additionally, the economic conditions in the United States have adversely impacted general demand for new and used commercial vehicles and construction equipment. As a result, our new and used commercial vehicle and construction equipment sales and margins have been adversely impacted. If the unfavorable economic conditions continue for significant future periods or further deteriorate significantly and the availability of financing options remains limited, our commercial vehicle and construction equipment sales and margins will continue to be adversely impacted. Market conditions could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditure projects, refinance existing debt or acquisitions. Additional funds may not be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, there could be an adverse impact on our business and operations. We also may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. During economic downturns, new and used commercial vehicle and construction equipment retail sales tend to experience periods of decline characterized by oversupply and weak demand. The commercial vehicle and construction equipment retail industries may experience sustained periods of decline in commercial vehicle and construction equipment sales in the future. Any decline or change of this type could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents As previously discussed, our business is subject to the adverse economic conditions currently present in the United States, including, without limitation, decreased levels of business activity, decreased freight demand, decreased construction activity, interest rate volatility, and limited credit availability. These adverse economic conditions could continue to materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new commercial vehicle and construction equipment sales may differ from industry sales, due to particular economic conditions and other factors in the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse regional economic and competitive conditions in these areas could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions and the other factors described above also may materially adversely impact our sales of finance and insurance products, and parts and repair services. We may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain adequate inventory levels. Our business requires inventories held for sale to be maintained at dealer locations in order to facilitate immediate sales to customers on demand. We generally purchase inventories with the assistance of floor plan financing agreements. Our floor plan financing agreements are with companies that have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Additionally, our floor plan providers may have exposure to financial institutions in the form of equity investments and unsecured debt instruments. Write-downs of mortgage-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions such as our floor plan providers. In the event that our floor plan financing becomes insufficient to satisfy our future requirements or our floor plan providers are unable to continue to extend credit under our floor plan agreements, we would need to obtain similar financing from other sources. There is no assurance that such additional floor plan financing or alternate financing could be obtained or, if obtained, that it will be on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our floor plan financing agreements and some of our other debt are subject to variable interest rates. Therefore, our interest expense would rise with any increase in interest rates. A rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used commercial vehicle and construction equipment sales, because many of our customers finance these large purchases. As a result, a rise in interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion regarding our interest rate sensitivity. Our dealership agreements may be terminable upon a change of control and we cannot control whether our controlling shareholder and management maintain their current positions. We have entered into nonexclusive dealership agreements with Peterbilt that authorize us to act as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks. Peterbilt may terminate our dealership agreements in the event of a change of control of the Company or if we violate any number of provisions in the dealership agreements. Under our Peterbilt dealership agreements, a change of control occurs if (i) with respect to the election of directors, the aggregate voting power held by W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, W. Marvin Rush’s family members and other executives of the Company decreases below 30% (such persons currently control 34.2% of the aggregate voting power with respect to the election of directors); or (ii) any person or entity other than W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush and other Rush executives or any person or entity who has been approved in writing by PACCAR, owns common stock with a greater percentage of the voting power with respect to the election of our directors than W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush and other executives of the Company, in the aggregate, or any person other than W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, Robin M. Rush or any person who has been approved in writing by PACCAR holds the office of Chairman of the Board, President or Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We have no control over the transfer or disposition by W. Marvin Rush or by his estate of his common stock. If W. Marvin Rush were to sell his Class B common stock or bequest his Class B common stock to nonfamily members or if his estate is required to liquidate his Class B common stock to pay estate taxes or otherwise, the change of control provisions of the Peterbilt dealership agreements may be triggered and cause us to lose our critical right to sell Peterbilt products. Our John Deere dealership agreement and some of our medium-duty truck dealership agreements are also terminable if the aggregate voting power of W. Marvin Rush and his family members falls below certain percentages, typically 25%. If our dealership agreements with Peterbilt are terminated, we will lose the right to purchase such manufacturer’s products and the right to use certain trademarks, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. 15 Table of Contents If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, nonrenewal or renegotiation of their dealership agreements. Our truck dealership agreements impose certain operational obligations and financial requirements on us. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealership agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state motor vehicle dealer laws. If motor vehicle dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate dealerships, our manufacturers may be able to terminate our vehicle dealership agreements without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, or if such laws are weakened, we will be subject to higher risk of termination or non-renewal of our vehicle dealership agreements. Termination or non-renewal of our vehicle dealership agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. Our dealership agreements have relatively short terms which could result in non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal. Our Peterbilt dealership agreements have current terms expiring between March 2010 and October 2012. Our Volvo dealership agreement has a current term expiring August 2010. Our International dealership agreement has a current term expiring May 2013. Our dealership agreements with GMC, Hino, UD, Ford, Isuzu, Diamond, Elkhart and Blue Bird for the sale of medium-duty commercial vehicles have current terms expiring between August 2010 and August 2013. Upon expiration of each agreement, we must request and negotiate a renewal. In many states, state dealer franchise laws restrict the manufacturer’s ability to refuse to renew dealership agreements or to impose new terms upon renewal. To the extent such laws do permit non-renewal or imposition of new terms, the relatively short terms will give the manufacturers the opportunity to exercise such rights. Any non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal could have an adverse impact on our business. We depend on relationships with suppliers for sales incentives, discounts and similar programs which are material to our operations. We depend on suppliers for sales incentives, discounts, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote our use of their components. Most of the incentives and discounts are individually negotiated and not always the same as those made available to our competitors. These incentives and discounts are material to our operations. A reduction or discontinuation of a component supplier’s incentive program, or our component suppliers making the same incentives and discounts available to our competitors, could materially adversely affect our profitability. Substantial competition may affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition for customers and for suitable dealership locations. We compete with a large number of independent dealers, factory-owned dealers, and independent service centers, some of which operate in more than one location, but most of which operate in a single location. There is significant competition both within the markets we currently serve and in markets that we may enter. Moreover, our dealership agreements generally do not contractually provide us with exclusive dealerships in any territory. Manufacturers we represent could elect to create additional dealers in our market areas in the future, subject to restrictions imposed by state laws. While dealership agreements typically restrict dealers from operating sales or service facilities outside their assigned territory, such agreements do not restrict fleet or other sales or marketing activity outside the assigned territory. Accordingly, we engage in fleet sales and other marketing activities outside our assigned territories and other dealers engage in similar activities within our territories. Dealer competition continues to increase and is affected by a number of factors including the accessibility of dealership locations, the number of dealership locations, product pricing, product value, product quality, product design and customer service (including technical service). We anticipate that we will continue to face strong competition in the future. 16 Table of Contents We could incur substantial business interruptions during our dealer management system conversion. We will continue to implement SAP enterprise software and a new SAP dealership management system throughout the organization during 2010. The estimated cost of the implementation is approximately $34.0 million. SAP’s dealership management system will become our sole dealership management system for our Rush Truck Centers. We currently operate on a KARMAK Legend Enterprise Solution and our Rush Truck Centers operate on KARMAK Legend dealer management system. By implementing SAP, we believe that we will be able to standardize operational processes throughout our network of Rush Truck Centers. However, if our implementation of SAP is unsuccessful, we could incur substantial business interruptions, including the inability to perform routine business transactions, which could have a significant impact on our financial performance. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel. We believe that our success depends significantly upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management and key employees, including, in particular, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. ”Rusty” Rush. Additionally, our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as executive officers, managers and sales personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team, including, in particular, W. Marvin Rush or W. M. ”Rusty” Rush, could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract additional qualified executive officers, managers and sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our business strategy. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business. Our dealerships are concentrated in states and regions in the United States in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and hail storms) may disrupt our store operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, our business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations. Although we have, subject to certain limitations and exclusions, substantial insurance, we may be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future earnings. As of December 31, 2009, our backlog of new commercial vehicle orders was approximately $110.6 million. Our backlog is determined quarterly by multiplying the number of new commercial vehicles for each particular type of commercial vehicle ordered by a customer at our Rush Truck Centers by the recent average selling price for that type of commercial vehicle. We only include confirmed orders in our backlog. However, such orders are subject to cancellation. In the event of order cancellation, we have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The delivery time for a custom-ordered truck varies depending on the truck specifications and demand for the particular model ordered. We sell the majority of our new heavy-duty trucks by customer special order, with the remainder sold out of inventory. Orders from a number of our major fleet customers are included in our backlog as of December 31, 2009. However, our major fleet customers could cancel these orders. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenue and profit we actually receive from orders projected in our backlog. If we were to experience significant cancellations of orders in our backlog, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our dealerships are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks; the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, petroleum and other materials; and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with commercial vehicle or construction equipment dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the generation, use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. Any non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant fines, penalties and remediation costs which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 17 Table of Contents We may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment, or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. In that case, laws and regulations may make us responsible for liability relating to the investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. In connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with dispositions of businesses, or dispositions previously made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Compliance with current or amended, or new or more stringent, laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws or the future discovery of environmental conditions could require additional expenditures by us which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products and services. It is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address climate change or greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business. Any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions, or reduced demand for our products and services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Negative conditions in global credit markets may impair our investments in auction rate securities. Auction rate securities (“ARS”) are long-term debt instruments with interest rates that reset through periodic short-term auctions. Holders of ARS can either sell into the auction, or bid based on a desired interest rate, or hold and accept the reset rate. If there are insufficient buyers, then the auction fails and holders are unable to liquidate their investment through the auction. A failed auction is not a default of the debt instrument, but does set a new interest rate in accordance with the original terms of the debt instrument. The result of a failed auction is that the ARS continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms; however, liquidity for holders is limited until there is a successful auction or until such time as another market for ARS develops. ARS are generally callable at any time by the issuer. Auctions continue to be held as scheduled until the ARS matures or until it is called. As a result of the conditions in the global credit markets, we have been unable to liquidate our holdings of certain ARS because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities and the auctions failed. As of December 31, 2009, the Company held approximately $7.6 million in ARS. For failed auctions, we continue to earn interest on these investments at the contractual rate. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the securities, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the securities mature. If these ARS are unable to successfully clear at future auctions or issuers do not redeem the securities, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. If we determine that the fair value of these ARS is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment within other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other than temporarily impaired, we would recognize the credit loss portion of the other than temporary impairment in earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Any noncredit loss would be recognized in other comprehensive income. For further discussion of the risks related to our auction rate securities, see Note 18 – Investments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 6A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. Approximately 95% of these intangibles are concentrated in our Truck Segment. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if potential interim indicators exist that could result in impairment. In testing for impairment, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a prolonged period for the current global recession and tight credit markets, further decline in economic conditions or a slow, weak economic recovery, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, any matters that impact Peterbilt’s ability to provide trucks to us, issues with our Peterbilt franchise rights, or other factors leading to reductions in expected long-term sales or profitability. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit includes developing estimates which are highly subjective and incorporate calculations that are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions. Management’s assumptions change as more information becomes available. Changes in these assumptions could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill” for more information regarding the potential impact of changes in assumptions. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by a single shareholder and his affiliates. W. Marvin Rush owns approximately 0.1% of our issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock and 38.4% of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock. W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush collectively control more than 34.2% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding shares and voting power which is superior to that of any other person or group. The interests of W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush may not be consistent with your interests as a shareholder. As a result of such ownership, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush have the power to effectively control the Company, including the election of directors, the determination of matters requiring shareholder approval and other matters pertaining to corporate governance. The Class A common stock has limited voting power. Each share of Class A common stock ranks substantially equal to each share of Class B common stock with respect to receipt of any dividends or distributions declared on shares of common stock and the right to receive proceeds on liquidation or dissolution of us after payment of our indebtedness and liquidation preference payments to holders of any preferred shares. However, holders of Class A common stock have 1/20th of one vote per share on all matters requiring a shareholder vote, while holders of Class B common stock have one full vote per share. Our dealership agreements could discourage another company from acquiring us and impede our ability to issue additional stock to raise capital or as consideration for future acquisitions. A number of our dealership agreements impose restrictions on the sale and transfer of our common stock. These restrictions also may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. For example, under the Peterbilt dealership agreements, except as may be otherwise approved from time to time by Peterbilt, W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, W. Marvin Rush’s family members and other of our executives, in the aggregate, are required to retain control of at least 30% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding shares and voting power equal or superior to that of any other person or group. In addition, W. Marvin Rush and members of his immediate family have granted Peterbilt a right of first refusal to purchase their respective shares of common stock in the event that any of such individuals desire to transfer in excess of 100,000 shares in any 12-month period to any person other than an immediate family member, an associate or a Dealer Principal (as defined in the Peterbilt dealership agreements). This right of first refusal, the number of shares owned by W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush and the requirement in our dealership agreements that certain dealer principals retain a controlling interest in us, combined with the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without further vote or action by the shareholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control without further action by our shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent or delay a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable. We do not have the right to waive the right of first refusal or the terms of its dealership agreements in order to accept a favorable offer. Actions by our shareholders or prospective shareholders that would violate any of the above restrictions on our dealership agreements are generally outside our control. If we are unable to renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more of our dealerships, which could have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also inhibit our ability to acquire additional dealerships. These restrictions also may impede our ability to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents Our Class B common stock has a low average daily trading volume. As a result, sales of our Class B common stock could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to drop, and it may be difficult for a stockholder to liquidate its position in our Class B common stock quickly without adversely affecting the market price of such shares. The market price of our Class B common stock has historically been lower than the market price of our Class A common stock. The volume of trading in our Class B common stock varies greatly and may often be light. As of March 1, 2010, the three-month average daily trading volume of our Class B common stock was approximately 6,210 shares, with several days having a trading volume below 500 shares. W. Marvin Rush, our Chairman, owns approximately 38.4% of our Class B common stock. If any large shareholder, including W. Marvin Rush, were to begin selling shares in the market rather than holding such shares over a longer term, the added available supply of shares could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to drop. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a shareholder to sell a large number of shares of our Class B common stock in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our Class B common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 