Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we recommend that you carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent upon PACCAR for the supply of Peterbilt trucks and parts, the sale of which generates the majority of our revenues. At certain Rush Truck Centers, we operate as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks and parts pursuant to dealership agreements with Peterbilt, a division of PACCAR. We have no control over the management or operation of Peterbilt or PACCAR. During 2012, the majority of our revenues resulted from sales of trucks purchased from Peterbilt and parts purchased from PACCAR. Due to our dependence on PACCAR and Peterbilt, we believe that the long-term success of our Rush Truck Centers depends, in large part, on the following: · our ability to maintain our dealership agreements with Peterbilt; · the manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality Peterbilt trucks and parts by PACCAR in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements; · the overall success of PACCAR and Peterbilt; · PACCAR’s continuation of its Peterbilt division; · the maintenance of goodwill associated with the Peterbilt brand, which can be adversely affected by decisions made by PACCAR, Peterbilt and the owners of other Peterbilt dealerships; and · Peterbilt’s ability to offer vehicles that meet federal and state emissions requirements. A negative change in any of the preceding could have a material adverse affect on our operations, revenues and profitability. Our dealership agreements may be terminable upon a change of control and we cannot control whether our controlling shareholder and management maintain their current positions. We have entered into nonexclusive dealership agreements with Peterbilt that authorize us to act as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks. Peterbilt may terminate our dealership agreements in the event of a change of control of the Company or if we violate any number of provisions in the dealership agreements. Under our Peterbilt dealership agreements, a change of control occurs if (i) with respect to the election of directors, the aggregate voting power held by W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, Barbara Rush, Robin M. Rush, David C. Orf, James Thor, Martin A. Naegelin, Scott Anderson, Derrek Weaver, Steven Keller, Corey Lowe and Rich Ryan (collectively, the “Dealer Principals”) decreases below 22% (such persons controlled 28.3% of the aggregate voting power with respect to the election of directors as of December 31, 2012); or (ii) any person or entity other than the Dealer Principals and their respective associates or any person or entity who has been approved in writing by PACCAR, owns common stock with a greater percentage of the voting power with respect to the election of our directors than the Dealer Principals and their respective associates, in the aggregate, or any person other than W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, Robin M. Rush or any person who has been approved in writing by PACCAR holds the office of Chairman of the Board, President or Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We have no control over the transfer or disposition by W. Marvin Rush or by his estate of his common stock. If W. Marvin Rush or W.M. “Rusty” Rush were to sell their Class B common stock or bequest their Class B common stock to nonfamily members or if their estates are required to liquidate their Class B common stock to pay estate taxes or otherwise, the change of control provisions of the Peterbilt dealership agreements may be triggered and cause us to lose our critical right to sell Peterbilt products. If our dealership agreements with Peterbilt are terminated, we will lose the right to purchase Peterbilt products, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. 15 If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, nonrenewal or renegotiation of their dealership agreements. We depend on our vehicle dealership agreements for a substantial portion of our revenues and profitability. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealership agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state motor vehicle dealer laws. If motor vehicle dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate dealerships, our manufacturers may be able to terminate our vehicle dealership agreements without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, or if such laws are weakened, we will be subject to higher risk of termination or non-renewal of our vehicle dealership agreements. Termination or non-renewal of our vehicle dealership agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. We may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain adequate inventory levels. Our business requires inventories held for sale to be maintained at dealer locations in order to facilitate immediate sales to customers on demand. We generally purchase inventories with the assistance of floor plan financing agreements. Our primary floor plan financing agreement may be terminated without cause upon 120 days notice. In the event that our floor plan financing becomes insufficient to satisfy our future requirements or our floor plan providers are unable to continue to extend credit under our floor plan agreements, we would need to obtain similar financing from other sources. There is no assurance that such additional floor plan financing or alternate financing could be obtained or, if obtained, that it will be on commercially reasonable terms. A significant percentage of our revenues come from customers in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry. Several of our large customers provide oil and gas production services. The oil and gas exploration and production industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Any reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. Approximately 98% of this goodwill is concentrated in our Truck Segment. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if potential interim indicators exist that could result in impairment. In testing for impairment, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a prolonged weak economic recovery, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, any matters that impact manufacturers’ ability to provide trucks to us, issues with our franchise rights, or other factors leading to reductions in expected long-term sales or profitability. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit includes developing estimates that are highly subjective and incorporate calculations that are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions. Management’s assumptions are subject to change as more information becomes available. Changes in these assumptions could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill” for more information regarding the potential impact of changes in assumptions. 16 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our primary floor plan financing agreement and some of our other debt are subject to variable interest rates. Therefore, our interest expense would rise with any increase in interest rates. A rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used commercial vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance these large purchases. As a result, a rise in interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion regarding our interest rate sensitivity. Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. New and used commercial vehicle retail sales tend to experience periods of decline characterized by oversupply and weak demand. The commercial vehicle retail industries may experience sustained periods of decline in commercial vehicle sales in the future. Any decline or change of this type could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse regional economic and competitive conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new commercial vehicle sales volume therefore may differ from industry sales fluctuations. Economic conditions and the other factors described above also may materially adversely impact our sales of finance and insurance products, and parts and repair services. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel. We believe that our success depends significantly upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management and key employees. Additionally, our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as executive officers, managers and dealership personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract additional qualified executive officers, managers and dealership personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our business strategy. We depend on relationships with suppliers for sales incentives, discounts and similar programs which are material to our operations. We depend on suppliers for sales incentives, discounts, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote our use of their components. Most of the incentives and discounts are individually negotiated and not always the same as those made available to our competitors. These incentives and discounts are material to our operations. A reduction or discontinuation of a component supplier’s incentive program could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent on the ongoing success of the manufacturers we represent and adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers we represent may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. The success of our dealerships is dependent on the manufacturers represented at such dealerships in several ways. Our ability to sell new vehicles and replacement parts is dependent on the ability of the manufacturers we represent to produce and deliver new vehicles and replacement parts to our dealerships. Additionally, our dealerships perform warranty work for vehicles under manufacturer product warranties, which are billed to the appropriate vehicle manufacturer or component supplier as opposed to invoicing the store customer. We generally have significant receivables from manufacturers for warranty and service work performed for customers. In addition, we rely on manufacturers to varying extents for product training, marketing materials, and other items for our stores. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected as a result of any event that has a material adverse effect on the manufacturers we represent. 17 The manufacturers we represent may be adversely impacted by economic downturns, significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles, labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their major suppliers), rising raw materials costs, rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their products (including due to bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design, governmental laws and regulations, or other adverse events. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected if one or more of the manufacturers we represent are impacted by any of the foregoing adverse events. Actions taken in response to continued operational losses by manufacturers we represent, including bankruptcy or reorganizations, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volumes and profitability. In addition, such actions could lead to the impairment of one or more of our franchise rights, inventories, fixed assets and other related assets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during the second quarter of 2009, General Motors made the decision to terminate its medium-duty GMC truck production and wind-down the Company’s medium-duty GMC truck franchises, which forced the Company to take a significant pre-tax asset impairment charge in the second quarter of 2009. Actions taken in response to continued operational losses by manufacturers we represent, including bankruptcy or reorganizations, could also eliminate or reduce such manufacturers’ indemnification obligations to our dealerships, which could increase our risk in products liability actions. Our dealership agreements are non-exclusive and have relatively short terms which could result in non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal. Our dealership agreements generally do not contractually provide us with exclusive dealerships in any territory. The manufacturers we represent could elect to create additional dealers in our market areas in the future, subject to restrictions imposed by state laws. While dealership agreements typically restrict dealers from operating sales or service facilities outside their assigned territory, such agreements do not restrict fleet or other sales or marketing activity outside the assigned territory. Accordingly, we engage in fleet sales and other marketing activities outside our assigned territories and other dealers engage in similar activities within our territories. Our dealership agreements with Peterbilt, International, Autocar, Mitsubishi, Hino, Ford, Isuzu, Elkhart, Blue Bird and IC Bus have current terms expiring between March 2013 and May 2018. Upon expiration of each agreement, we must negotiate a renewal. In many states, state dealer franchise laws restrict the manufacturer’s ability to refuse to renew dealership agreements or to impose new terms upon renewal. To the extent such laws do permit non-renewal or imposition of new terms, the relatively short terms will give the manufacturers the opportunity to exercise such rights. Any non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal could have an adverse impact on our business. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future earnings. As of December 31, 2012, our backlog of new commercial vehicle orders was approximately $719.2 million. Our backlog is determined quarterly by multiplying the number of new commercial vehicles for each particular type of commercial vehicle ordered by a customer at our Rush Truck Centers by the recent average selling price for that type of commercial vehicle. We only include confirmed orders in our backlog. However, such orders are subject to cancellation. In the event of order cancellation, we have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenue and profit we actually receive from orders projected in our backlog. If we were to experience significant cancellations of orders in our backlog, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our dealerships are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks; the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, petroleum and other materials; and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with commercial vehicle dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the generation, use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. Any non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant fines, penalties and remediation costs which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 18 We may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment, or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. In that case, laws and regulations may make us responsible for liability relating to the investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. In connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with dispositions of businesses, or dispositions previously made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Compliance with current or amended, or new or more stringent, laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws or the future discovery of environmental conditions could require additional expenditures by us which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business. Our dealerships are concentrated in states and regions in the United States in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and hail storms) may disrupt our operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, our business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations. Although we have, subject to certain limitations and exclusions, substantial insurance, we may be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased costs and reduced demand for our products and services. The EPA and the DOT’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) recently announced proposed rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve fuel efficiency of medium and heavy-duty vehicles. The EPA and NHTSA are attempting to create a “heavy-duty national program,” designed to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change by each proposing complementary standards to reduce fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions from on-highway transportation sources. The emissions and fuel consumption standards in the proposed rules would phase in with increasing stringency in each model year from 2014 to 2017. The proposed rules are likely to increase the production costs of the manufacturers we represent. Our manufacturers are likely to pass such costs on to us, which could increase the cost of the new vehicles we sell and, accordingly, reduce demand for such products. Increased costs and reduced demand could materially adversely affect our ability to sell new vehicles, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our investments in auction rate securities may be further impaired. Auction rate securities (“ARS”) are long-term debt instruments with interest rates that reset through periodic short-term auctions. Holders of ARS can either sell into the auction, or bid, based on a desired interest rate, or hold and accept the reset rate. If there are insufficient buyers, then the auction fails and holders are unable to liquidate their investment through the auction. A failed auction is not a default of the debt instrument, but does set a new interest rate in accordance with the original terms of the debt instrument. The result of a failed auction is that the ARS continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms; however, liquidity for holders is limited until there is a successful auction or until such time as another market for ARS develops. ARS are generally callable at any time by the issuer. Auctions continue to be held as scheduled until the ARS matures or until it is called. 19 As a result of the conditions in the global credit markets, we have been unable to liquidate our holdings of certain ARS because the auctions for the ARS we hold have failed. As of December 31, 2012, the Company held ARS with underlying tax-exempt municipal bonds that mature in 2030 that have a fair value of $6.6 million and a cost basis of $7.6 million. This decrease in fair value is considered temporary and the impairment charge is recorded as other comprehensive income, a component of shareholder equity. We continue to earn interest on these investments at the contractual rate. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the securities, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the securities mature. If these ARS are unable to successfully clear at future auctions or issuers do not redeem the securities, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the securities and record additional impairment charges. If we determine that the fair value of these ARS is further impaired, we will record a temporary impairment within other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other than temporarily impaired, we would recognize the credit loss portion of the other than temporary impairment in earnings, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Any noncredit loss would be recognized in other comprehensive income. For further discussion of the risks related to our auction rate securities, see Note 9 – Financial Instruments and Fair Value of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by two shareholders and their affiliates. Collectively, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush and their affiliates own approximately 0.33% of our issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock and 31.9% of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock. W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush collectively control more than 28.3% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding shares and voting power which is superior to that of any other person or group. The interests of W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush may not be consistent with the interests of all shareholders. As a result of such ownership, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush have the power to effectively control the Company, including the election of directors, the determination of matters requiring shareholder approval and other matters pertaining to corporate governance. Our dealership agreements could discourage another company from acquiring us. Our dealership agreements with Peterbilt impose ownership requirements on officers of the Company. All of our dealer agreements include restrictions on the sale or transfer of the underlying franchises. These ownership requirements and restrictions may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. Additionally, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush have granted Peterbilt a right of first refusal to purchase their respective shares of common stock in the event that they desire to transfer in excess of 100,000 shares in any 12-month period to any person other than an immediate family member, an associate or another Dealer Principal. However, in the case of W. Marvin Rush, certain shares of his Class B common stock of the Company are exempt from his rights of first refusal agreement. These rights of first refusal, the number of shares owned by W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush and their affiliates, the requirement in our dealership agreements that the Dealer Principals retain a controlling interest in us, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of our franchises contained in our dealer agreements combined with the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without further vote or action by the shareholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control without further action by our shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent or delay a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable. Actions by our shareholders or prospective shareholders that would violate any of the above restrictions on our dealership agreements are generally outside our control. If we are unable to renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more of our dealerships, which could have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also inhibit our ability to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions. The Class A common stock has limited voting power. Each share of Class A common stock ranks substantially equal to each share of Class B common stock with respect to receipt of any dividends or distributions declared on shares of common stock and the right to receive proceeds on liquidation or dissolution of us after payment of our indebtedness and liquidation preference payments to holders of any preferred shares. However, holders of Class A common stock have 1/20th of one vote per share on all matters requiring a shareholder vote, while holders of Class B common stock have one full vote per share. Our Class B common stock has a low average daily trading volume. As a result, sales of our Class B common stock could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to drop, and it may be difficult for a stockholder to liquidate its position in our Class B common stock quickly without adversely affecting the market price of such shares. 20 The market price of our Class B common stock has historically been lower than the market price of our Class A common stock. The volume of trading in our Class B common stock varies greatly and may often be light. As of December 31, 2012, the three-month average daily trading volume of our Class B common stock was approximately 4,000 shares, with several days having a trading volume below 500 shares. If any large shareholder were to begin selling shares in the market, the added available supply of shares could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to drop. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a shareholder to sell a large number of shares of our Class B common stock in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our Class B common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 