Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks that could cause actual operating and financial results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements, including the risks described below and the risks that may be identified in future documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions could negatively impact our business. Economic activity in the United States and throughout the world has undergone a sudden, sharp downturn. Global financial markets have and could continue to experience unprecedented volatility and disruption. Certain of our customers and suppliers are directly affected by the economic downturn, are facing credit issues and could experience cash flow problems that have and could continue to give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our rail services. In addition, adverse economic conditions could also affect our costs for insurance and our ability to acquire and maintain adequate insurance coverage for risks associated with the railroad business if insurance companies experience credit downgrades or bankruptcies. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to stimulate the economy, restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. It is difficult to determine the depth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may impact our customers, suppliers and our business in general. Moreover, given the asset intensive nature of our business, the economic downturn increases the risk of significant asset impairment charges since we are required to assess for potential impairment of non-current assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, including economic circumstances, indicate that the respective asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. Continuation or further worsening of current macroeconomic and financial conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or investments, then we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based to a large extent on the selective acquisition and development of, and investment in, rail properties, both in new regions and in regions in which we currently operate. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities; • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; • our ability to value acquisition and investment opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, the market price for our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. We may need additional capital to fund our acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain additional capital at a reasonable cost, then we may forego potential acquisitions, which would impair the execution of our growth strategy. Since January 1, 1996, we have acquired interests in 54 railroads, the majority of which were purchased for cash. As of December 31, 2008, we had undrawn revolver capacity of $210.9 million and $31.7 million of cash and cash equivalents available for acquisitions or other activities. We intend to continue to review acquisition 15 Table of Contents candidates and potential purchases of railroad assets and to attempt to acquire companies and assets that meet our investment criteria. We expect that, as in the past, we will pay cash for some or all of the purchase price of any acquisitions or purchases that we make. Depending on the number of acquisitions or purchases and the prices thereof, we may not generate enough cash from operations to pay for the acquisitions or purchases. We may, therefore, need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our acquisitions. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions and costs on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The global financial markets have been and may continue to be constrained and may not be a source of additional capital. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, then we may forego potential acquisitions, which could impair the execution of our growth strategy. Our inability to acquire or integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions. Evaluating acquisition targets gives rise to additional costs related to legal, financial, operating and industry due diligence. Acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We may not be able to manage or integrate the acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of acquiring businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; • integrating employees of rail lines acquired from other entities into our regional railroad culture; • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short-and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. The expected revenue enhancements and cost savings are based on analyses completed by members of our management. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served, operating costs and competitive factors, most of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Many of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of stock of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before our acquisition. The due diligence we conduct 16 Table of Contents in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Generally, the representations made by the sellers, other than certain representations related to fundamental matters, such as ownership of capital stock, expire several years after closing. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our credit facilities and note purchase agreements contain numerous covenants that impose certain restrictions on the way we operate our business. Our credit facilities contain numerous covenants that impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens on our assets; • make certain types of investments; • repurchase shares or pay dividends; • make expenditures for capital projects; • merge or consolidate with others; • make asset acquisitions other than in the ordinary course of business; • dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Our credit facilities also contain financial covenants that require us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Our failure to comply with the obligations in our credit facilities could result in an increase in our interest expense and could give rise to events of default under the credit facilities, which, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our indebtedness, allowing our senior lenders to foreclose on our assets. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money have defaulted and may continue to default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We have procedures for reviewing our receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties; however, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are not publicly available or otherwise accessible by us and this information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. As a result, unexpected credit exposures could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The loss of important customers or contracts may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations served more than 950 customers in 2008. Freight revenue from our 10 largest freight revenue customers accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenues in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, four of our 17 Table of Contents 10 largest customers operated in the paper and forest products industry. In 2008, our largest freight revenue customer was a company in the paper and forest products industry, freight revenue from which accounted for approximately 5% of our total revenues in 2008. We typically handle freight pursuant to transportation contracts between us, our connecting carriers and the customer. These contracts are in accordance with industry norms and vary in duration. These contracts establish price or, in the case of longer term contracts, a methodology for determining price, but do not typically obligate the customer to move any particular volume and are not typically linked to the prices of the commodities being shipped. Substantial reduction in business with or loss of important customers or contracts has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Because we depend on Class I railroads and other connecting carriers for a majority of our operations, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with these carriers deteriorate. The railroad industry in the United States and Canada is dominated by seven Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. In 2008, approximately 88% of our total carloads in the United States and Canada were interchanged with Class I carriers. A decision by any of these Class I carriers to use alternate modes of transportation, such as motor carriers, or to cease certain freight movements, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The quantitative impact of such a decision would depend on which Class I carrier made such a decision and which of our routes and freight movements were affected. In addition, Class I carriers also have traditionally been significant sources of business for us, as well as sources of potential acquisition candidates as they divest branch lines to smaller rail operators, which divestitures are important for the execution of our growth strategy. Our ability to provide rail service to customers in the United States and Canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to freight rates, revenue divisions, fuel surcharges, car supply, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations of or service provided by those connecting carriers or in our relationship with those connecting carriers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on lease agreements with Class I railroads and other third parties for our operations, strategy and growth. Our rail operations are dependent, in part, on lease agreements with Class I railroads and third parties, which allow us to operate over certain segments of track critical to our operations. For instance, we lease several railroads from Class I carriers under long-term lease arrangements, which collectively accounted for approximately 12% of our 2008 revenues. In addition, we own several railroads that also lease portions of the track or right of way upon which they operate from Class I railroads and other third parties. Our ability to provide comprehensive rail services to our customers on the leased lines depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and extend these lease agreements. Expiration or termination of these leases or failure of our railroads to comply with the terms of these leases could result in the loss of operating rights with respect to those rail properties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We face competition from numerous sources, including those relating to geography, substitute products, other types of transportation and other rail operators. Each of our railroads is typically the only rail carrier directly serving our customers. However, in certain circumstances, including under the open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands, our customers have access to other rail carriers. In addition, our railroads also compete directly with other modes of transportation, principally motor carriers and, on some routes, ship, barge and pipeline operators. Transportation providers such as motor carriers and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, 18 Table of Contents while we must build and maintain our network. In addition, other rail operators may build new rail lines to access certain of our customers. If competition from these alternative methods of transportation or competitors materially increases, or if legislation is passed providing materially greater opportunity for motor carriers with respect to size or weight restrictions, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are also subject to geographic and product competition. For example, a customer could shift production to a region where we do not have operations or could substitute one commodity for another commodity that is not transported by rail. In either case, we would lose a source of revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The extent of this competition varies significantly among our railroads. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged, the relative costs of substitutable products and the transit time required. In addition, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the service provided. Because a significant portion of our carloads in the United States and Canada involve interchange with another carrier, we have only limited control over the total price, transit time or quality of such service. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality of these alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which we operate or legislation granting materially greater latitude for other modes of transportation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. For information on the competition associated with the open access regimes in Europe and Australia, see “Additional Risks Associated with our Foreign Operations.” It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of competition on our business, since not only each customer, but also each customer location and each product shipped from such location is subject to different types of competition. We are subject to significant governmental regulation of our railroad operations. The failure to comply with governmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to governmental regulation with respect to our railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, security, labor, environmental and other matters by a significant number of federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In the United States, these agencies include the STB, the DOT, the FRA of the DOT, other federal agencies (including the DHS) and state departments of transportation. In Australia, we are subject to both Commonwealth and state regulations. In Canada, we are subject to regulation by the CTA, TC and the regulatory departments of the provincial governments of Quebec and Ontario. In the Netherlands, we are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management, the Transport, Public Works and Water Management Inspectorate and the Dutch railways manager, Pro Rail. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Changes to the legislative and regulatory environment, if adopted, could have a significant impact on our railroad operations. There are various legislative actions being considered in the United States that modify or increase regulatory oversight of the rail industry. The majority of the actions under consideration and pending are directed at Class I railroads; however, specific initiatives recently introduced in Congress associated with competition, safety, pricing power, positive train control, security and labor regulations could significantly affect our operations and the cost of compliance with the proposed rules and regulations could be significant. In addition, proposed and pending regulations may require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations, and we may not be able to do so. Federal, state and local regulatory authorities may change the regulatory framework without providing us with any recourse for the adverse effects that the changes may have on our operations. As a result, changes to legislation and the regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 19 Table of Contents Market and regulatory responses to climate change could adversely affect our operating costs and decrease demand for the commodities we transport. Clean air laws, restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that use commodities that we carry to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We could incur significant costs for violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Our railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials and cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. We may incur environmental liability from conditions or practices at properties previously owned or operated by us, properties leased by us and other properties owned by third parties (for example, properties at which hazardous substances or wastes for which we are responsible have been treated, stored, spilled or disposed), as well as at properties currently owned by us. Under some environmental statutes, such liability may be without regard to whether we were at fault and may also be “joint and several,” whereby we are responsible for all the liability at issue even though we (or the entity that gives rise to our liability) may be only one of a number of entities whose conduct contributed to the liability. Environmental liabilities may arise from claims asserted by owners or occupants of affected properties or other third parties affected by environmental conditions (for example, contractors and current or former employees) seeking to recover in connection with alleged damages to their property or with personal injury or death, as well as by governmental authorities seeking to remedy environmental conditions or to enforce environmental obligations. Environmental requirements and liabilities could obligate us to incur significant costs, including significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Rising fuel costs could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses and an increase in fuel costs could have a negative effect on our profitability. Although we receive fuel surcharges and other rate adjustments to offset rising fuel prices, if Class I railroads change their policies regarding fuel surcharges, then the compensation we receive for increases in fuel costs may decrease. Fuel costs for fuel used in operations were approximately 13% and 11% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced by factors beyond our control, such as international political and economic circumstances. If diesel fuel prices increase dramatically or if a fuel supply shortage were to arise from production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 20 Table of Contents We may be affected by supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets. We consumed 18.8 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2008. Fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. If a severe fuel supply shortage arose from production curtailments, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or otherwise, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity could be adversely affected. As a common carrier by rail, we are required to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury, property damage and environmental remediation costs and compromise critical parts of our railroads. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to rail transportation of these commodities. In addition, federal regulators have previously prescribed regulations governing railroads’ transportation of hazardous materials and have the ability to put in place additional regulations. For instance, recently enacted legislation requires pre-notification for hazardous materials shipments. Such legislation and regulations could impose significant additional costs on railroads. Additionally, regulations adopted by the DOT and the DHS could significantly increase the costs associated with moving hazardous materials on our railroads. Further, certain local governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving by rail within their borders. Such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments, with the potential for significant additional costs. Increases in our costs associated with the transport of hazardous materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are either not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We have obtained for each of our railroads insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. On certain of the rail lines over which we operate, freight trains are commingled with passenger trains. For instance, in Oregon we operate certain passenger trains for the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon over our Portland & Western Railroad. Unexpected or catastrophic circumstances such as accidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials could cause our liability to exceed expected statutory limits, third-party insurance limits and our insurance limits. Insurance is available from only a very limited number of insurers, and we may not be able to obtain insurance protection at our current levels or obtain it on terms acceptable to us. In addition, subsequent adverse events directly and indirectly applicable to us may result in additional increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self-insured retentions and could result in limitations to the coverage under our existing policies. The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States, Australia and Canada. In North America, we are party to 37 contracts with national labor organizations. We are currently engaged in negotiations with respect to six of those agreements. We have also entered into employee association agreements with an additional 145 employees who are not represented by a national labor organization. GWA has a collective enterprise bargaining agreement covering the majority of its employees. Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor 21 Table of Contents agreements were renegotiated, then we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which, in either case, could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. To date, we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages. We are also subject to the risk of the unionization of our non-unionized employees, which risk could increase if pro-union legislation currently under consideration is adopted. Additional unionization of our workforce could result in higher employee compensation and restrictive working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. In addition, work interruptions may be threatened, which could cause customers to seek other transportation alternatives, with a corresponding adverse financial impact. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers, then our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our success and our growth depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled workers that possess the ability to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities. The operation and maintenance of our equipment and facilities involve complex and specialized processes and often must be performed in harsh conditions, resulting in a high employee turnover rate when compared to many other industries. The challenge of attracting and retaining the necessary workforce is increased by the expected retirement of an aging workforce and significant competition for specialized trades. Within the next five years, we estimate approximately 15% of the current workforce will become eligible for retirement. Many of these workers hold key operating positions, such as conductors, engineers and mechanics. In addition, the demand for workers with the types of skills we require has increased, especially from Class I railroads, which can usually offer higher wages and better benefits. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If any of these events were to occur, then our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations are dependent on our ability to obtain railcars, locomotives and other critical railroad items from suppliers. Due to the capital intensive nature and industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, there are high barriers of entry for potential new suppliers of core railroad items such as railcars, locomotives and track materials. If the number of available railcars is insufficient or if the cost of obtaining these railcars increases, then we might not be able to obtain replacement railcars on favorable terms, or at all, and shippers may seek alternate forms of transportation. In addition, in some cases we use third-party locomotives to provide transportation services to our customers. Without these third-party locomotives, we would need to invest additional capital in locomotives. Additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of certain track materials, such as rail and ties. Changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited-supplier markets could result in increased prices or material shortages that could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, freight loss and other property damage and other matters. For example, United States job-related personal injury claims are subject to FELA, which is applicable only to railroads. FELA’s fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker’s compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in the actual costs of claims being very different from the liability recorded. Any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident involving material freight loss or property damage, personal injury and environmental liability that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 22 Table of Contents Our results of operations are susceptible to severe weather conditions and other natural occurrences. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including floods, fires, hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes and other natural occurrences. For example: • Our minerals and stone revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the Northeastern United States, which lessen demand for road salt. • Our coal, coke and ores revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the Midwestern United States, which lessen demand for coal. • GWA’s revenues are susceptible to the impact of drought conditions on the South Australian grain harvest. Bad weather and natural disasters, such as blizzards in the Northeastern United States and Canada and hurricanes in the Southeastern United States, could cause a shutdown or substantial disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if a material adverse weather or other condition does not directly affect our operations, it can impact the operations of our customers or connecting carriers. Such weather conditions could cause our customers or connecting carriers to reduce or suspend their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, our expenses could be adversely impacted by weather, including, for example, higher track maintenance and overtime costs in the winter at our railroads in the Northeastern United States and Canada related to snow removal and mandated work breaks. In addition, GWA derives a significant portion of its rail freight revenues from shipments of grain. For each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, grain shipments generated approximately 3% of GWI’s operating revenues. A decrease in grain shipments as a result of adverse weather or other negative agricultural conditions could have a material adverse effect on GWA’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our capital projects may be impacted by our ability to obtain government funding. Certain of our existing capital projects are, and certain of our future capital projects may be, partially dependent on our ability to obtain government funding. During 2008, we obtained government funding for 38 separate projects that were partially funded by United States, Canada and Australia federal, state and municipal agencies. These funds represented approximately 18.2% of our total capital expenditures during 2008. Government funding for our projects is limited, and there is no guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate future funding availability. In addition, competition for government funding from other short line railroads, Class I railroads and other companies is significant, and the receipt of government funds is often contingent on the acceptance of contractual obligations that may not be strictly profit maximizing. In certain jurisdictions, the acceptance of government funds may impose additional legal obligations on our operations, such as compliance with prevailing wage requirements. Acts of terrorism or anti-terrorism measures may adversely affect us. Our rail lines, port operations and other facilities and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials that we are required to transport under federal law as a common carrier, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack or other similar event could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulatory measures designed to control terrorism could impose substantial costs upon us and could result in impairment to our service, which could also adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents ADDITIONAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. Some of our significant subsidiaries transact business in foreign countries, namely in Australia, Canada and the Netherlands, and we have a minority investment in Bolivia. In addition, we may consider acquisitions or other investments in other foreign countries in the future. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include: • adverse renegotiation or modification of existing agreements or arrangements with governmental authorities; • adverse changes or greater volatility in the economies of those countries; • adverse effects of currency exchange controls; • adverse currency movements that make goods produced in those countries that are destined for export markets less competitive; • adverse changes to the regulatory environment of those countries; • adverse changes to the tax laws and regulations of those countries; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • the nationalization of the businesses that we operate, such as threatened nationalization in Bolivia; • the actual or perceived failure by us to fulfill commitments under concession agreements; • the potential instability of foreign governments, including from domestic insurgency; • the ability to identify and retain qualified local managers; and • the challenge of managing a culturally and geographically diverse operation. Because some of our significant subsidiaries and affiliates transact business in foreign currencies and because a significant portion of our net income comes from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, future exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect us and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations in Australia, Canada and the Netherlands accounted for 19.0%, 9.1% and 1.7% of our consolidated operating revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The results of operations of our foreign entities are reported in the local currency—the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro—and then translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, any appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the United States dollar can impact our results of operations. The exchange rates between these currencies and the United States dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. For instance, in the year ended December 31, 2008, the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar depreciated 20.4% and 19.3%, respectively, relative to the United States dollar. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our exchange rate risks, and the volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in United States dollars, such fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Failure to meet concession commitments with respect to operations of our rail lines could result in the loss of our investment and a related loss of revenues. Through our subsidiaries in South Australia and unconsolidated minority interest in Bolivia, we have entered into long-term concession and/or lease agreements with governmental authorities in South Australia and 24 Table of Contents Bolivia. These concession and lease agreements are subject to a number of conditions, including those relating to the maintenance of certain standards with respect to safety, service, price and the environment. These concession and lease agreements also typically carry with them a commitment to maintain the condition of the railroad and to make a certain level of capital expenditures. Our failure to meet these commitments under the long-term concession and lease agreements could result in the loss of those concession or lease agreements. The loss of any concession or lease agreement could result in the loss of our entire investment relating to that concession or lease agreement and the related revenues and income. Open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands could lead to additional competition for rail services and decreased revenues and profit margins. The legislative and regulatory framework in Australia allows third-party rail operators to gain access to GWA’s railway infrastructure and also governs GWA’s access to track owned by others. The Netherlands also has an open access regime that permits third-party rail operators to compete for RRF’s business. There are limited barriers to entry to preclude a current or prospective rail operator from approaching GWA or RRF’s customers, and seeking to capture market share. The loss of GWA or RRF’s customers to competitors could result in decreased revenues and profit margins and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes to the open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands could have a significant impact on our operations. Access charges paid for access onto the track of other companies, and access charges under state and federal regimes are subject to change. Where we pay access fees to others, if those fees were increased, our operating margins could be negatively affected. In Australia, if the federal government or respective state regulators were to alter the regulatory regime or determine that access fees charged to current or prospective third-party rail freight operators by GWA did not meet competitive standards, then GWA’s income from those fees could decline. In addition, when GWA and RRF operate over track networks owned by others, the owners of the network are responsible for scheduling the use of the tracks as well as for determining the amount and timing of the expenditures necessary to maintain the tracks in satisfactory condition. Therefore, in areas where we operate over tracks owned by others, our operations are subject to train scheduling set by the owners as well as the risk that the network will not be adequately maintained. Either risk could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. GWA is subject to several contractual restrictions on its ability to compete. As a result of our June 2006 sale of the Western Australia operations and certain other assets of ARG to Queensland Rail and Babcock & Brown Limited (ARG Sale), GWA is subject to (a) a five-year non-compete in the State of Western Australia, the Melbourne-to-Adelaide corridor and certain areas within the State of New South Wales historically served by ARG; (b) a right of first refusal for the benefit of Queensland Rail on the sale of (i) GWA or a majority of the ownership of GWA and (ii) a number of high horsepower locomotives and intermodal wagons owned or operated by GWA and (c) a restriction on hiring of ARG employees who remain employed by ARG after the sale. These contractual restrictions may place limits on our ability to grow GWA’s business or divest of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on GWA’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 