ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisk FactorsThe performance of our company is subject to a variety of risks which you should review. Occurrence of these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. 13Table of ContentsDifficult conditions in the financial markets and the economy may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy and financial markets. Slow growth and low market rates continue to challenge the life insurance and annuity industries. While recent economic data indicates growth, future growth could be impacted by U.S. fiscal policies to address significant national budget deficits and debt levels. In the financial markets, strong liquidity, strong corporate profitability and modest economic growth continue to support fundamental credit quality. However, low economic growth and low inflation has restrained interest rates, challenging growth in investment income and resulting in declining portfolio investment yields across the insurance industry.Our business benefits from moderate to strong economic expansion. Conversely, a lackluster economic recovery characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, muted corporate earnings growth and lower business investment could adversely impact the demand for our products in the future. We also may experience a higher incidence of claims, lapses or surrenders of policies. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact such actions could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Adverse financial market conditions may significantly affect our liquidity, access to capital and cost of capital.As described in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources" of this Form 10-K, Farm Bureau Life has historically generated positive cash flow as measured by the degree to which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. At December 31, 2013, we believe the probability we would have to sell investments in an unrealized loss position to meet cash flow needs is remote. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition" and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for details regarding the unrealized gains and losses on our fixed maturity securities.Capital requirements depend on factors including Farm Bureau Life's accumulated statutory earnings, statutory capital and surplus, the rate of sales growth of our products, aggregate reserve levels and the levels of credit risk and/or interest rate risk in our invested assets. In order to support these capital requirements, we may need to increase or maintain Farm Bureau Life's statutory capital and surplus through additional financings, which could include debt, equity or other transactions. Adverse capital market conditions may affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. Without sufficient capital, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings.We manage our capital level to be consistent with statutory and rating agency requirements. As of December 31, 2013, we estimate that Farm Bureau Life has sufficient capital to meet our rating objectives. However, this capital may not be sufficient if significant future losses are incurred and access to additional capital is limited. Our valuation of fixed maturity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment or market conditions. Certain market sectors may become dislocated following periods of volatile and illiquid market conditions, as has occurred during the recent financial crisis, increasing the difficulty in valuing certain instruments, as trading has been less frequent and/or market data less observable. As a result, certain valuations require greater estimation and judgment as well as more complex valuation methods. These values may not ultimately be realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified.The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as an evaluation of our intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that we would be required to sell prior to recovery. Our conclusions regarding the recoverability of a particular security's fair value may ultimately prove to be incorrect as facts and circumstances change. 14Table of ContentsOur investment portfolio is subject to credit quality risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our profitability and reported book value per share. Particularly in the event of a major downturn in economic activity, we are subject to the risk that issuers of fixed maturity securities, other debt securities and commercial mortgage borrowers, will default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2013, we held $6.1 billion of fixed income securities, $0.3 billion of which represented below-investment grade holdings. Of these below-investment grade holdings, 93.2% were acquired as investment grade holdings but, as of December 31, 2013, had been downgraded to below investment grade. An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolios could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.Although we seek to diversify the investment portfolio across multiple asset classes, industries and geographies, the concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. As of December 31, 2013, we held $0.4 billion of fixed income securities in European countries, representing 6.9% of our total fixed maturities. Our largest European exposures are in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, with 44% and 15% of the balance, respectively. Changing interest rates, market volatility and general economic conditions affect the risks and the returns on both our products and our investment portfolio. The fair value of our investments and our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains or losses, may vary depending on economic and market conditions. The shape of the yield curve and the level of interest rates can impact the profitability of our products. Interest rate risk is our primary market risk exposure. Substantial and sustained increases and decreases in market interest rates can materially affect the profitability of our products, the fair value of our investments and the reported value of stockholders' equity. A key component of our financial results is the spread earned (the investment yield we earn less the crediting rates we pay to our policyholders). A narrowing of spreads would adversely affect operating results. Although we have the right to adjust interest crediting rates on a portion of our business in force, changes to crediting rates may not be sufficient to maintain targeted investment spreads in all economic and market environments. Our ability to lower crediting rates is subject to minimum crediting rates filed with and approved by state regulators. In addition, competition and other factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid the narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Market Risks of Financial Instruments" for further discussion of our interest rate risk exposure and information regarding our asset-liability management program to help mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk. We face competition from companies having greater financial resources, more advanced technology systems, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength.See "Item 1. Business - Ratings and Competition" for information regarding risks relating to competition.As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries for funds to meet our obligations, but our life insurance subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us is limited by law, and could be affected by minimum risk-based capital requirements.As a holding company, we rely on dividends from subsidiaries to assist in meeting our obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other cash payments in the future may materially affect our ability to satisfy our parent company payment obligations, including debt service and dividends on our common stock.The amount of dividends we have available to pay our common shareholders is limited to a certain extent by the amount of dividends our primary operating subsidiary, Farm Bureau Life, is able to pay to its parent, FBL Financial Group, Inc. Farm Bureau Life's ability to pay dividends to FBL Financial Group, Inc. is limited by Iowa law to earned profits (statutory unassigned surplus) as of the date the dividend is paid, as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities of the State of Iowa. Further, Farm Bureau Life’s dividends are required to be approved by the Insurance Division, Department of Commerce, State of Iowa (Iowa Insurance Division) if the dividend plus all dividend distributions for the preceding twelve months exceed the greater of 10% of its statutory surplus or its statutory net gain from 15Table of Contentsoperations for the 12-month period ended December 31st of the preceding year. At December 31, 2013 Farm Bureau Life’s statutory unassigned surplus was $359.0 million. Due to the $120.0 million extraordinary dividend paid by Farm Bureau Life to FBL Financial Group, Inc. during the third quarter of 2013, we have exceeded the annual approval limit through the third quarter of 2014; accordingly, any dividends made prior to the fourth quarter of 2014 will require approval of the Iowa Insurance Division. In addition, Farm Bureau Life is subject to the risk-based capital (RBC) requirement of the NAIC set forth in the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act (the Model Act). The main purpose of the Model Act is to provide insurance regulators a method of measuring the minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile. U.S. insurers and reinsurers are required to report the results of their RBC calculations as part of the statutory annual statements filed with state insurance regulatory authorities. State laws specify regulatory actions if an insurer's risk-based capital ratio, a measure of solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC based on various risk factors related to an insurance company's capital and surplus, including insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. The insurance regulators monitor the level of RBC against certain minimums, with an RBC ratio of 200% or lower resulting in an increasing severity of regulatory actions with an RBC ratio of 70% being the point at which the regulators will assume control over the insurance company. Failure to maintain adequate capital levels could lead to ratings downgrades and liquidity issues which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our current capital levels are well above any action level required by insurance company regulation. As of December 31, 2013, our total adjusted capital was $558.4 million, resulting in a RBC ratio of 499%, compared with authorized capital of $111.8 million required for an RBC of 200%. A significant ratings downgrade may have a material adverse effect on our business.Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. If our ratings were lowered, our ability to access reinsurance and market products to new customers could be harmed and existing policyholders might cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity. Our ratings reflect the agency's opinions as to our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to Farm Bureau Life's policyholders. There is no assurance that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be reduced, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agency, if in the rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. See "Item 1. Business - Ratings and Competition" for a summary of our current ratings.All segments of our business are highly regulated and these regulations or changes in them could affect our profitability. We are subject to statutes and regulations in various states in which our life subsidiaries operate. Insurance regulation is different in each state, but is similar in that it is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders, agents, insurance companies and their holding companies. State insurance regulators oversee matters relating to the business of life insurance and annuities, such as sales practices, policy forms, claims practices, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, changes in control and payment of dividends. They continually examine existing laws and regulations, and may recommend or make changes as they see appropriate.As noted above, through adoption by law in states where we do business, our life subsidiaries are subject to the NAIC's RBC requirements. These guidelines are used by state insurance regulators as an early warning tool to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized insurance companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Our life subsidiaries also may be required, under solvency or guarantee laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities for insolvent insurance companies.Although the federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance, our company is subject to the same federal laws as other corporations, including, but not limited to pension regulation, discrimination, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation. Any one of these regulatory schemes can significantly affect the insurance business. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of Treasury to collect information about the insurance industry, recommend prudential standards and represent the U.S. in dealings with foreign insurance regulators. The FIO recently released its long overdue report titled "How to Modernize and Improve the System of Insurance Regulation in the United States." The report includes recommendations for changes in several areas, including capital adequacy, safety and soundness, and marketplace regulation. We continue to monitor the activities of the FIO, NAIC and the state insurance regulators. 16Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Act has also resulted in certain other insurance companies (but not ours) being designated as non-bank systemically important financial institutions by the Financial Services Oversight Committee, which will result in their capital plans being regulated by both the states and the Federal Reserve. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, many key rules have yet to be formalized, some of which might have an impact on insurers. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving and could affect the design of our products and our ability to sell certain products. Any changes in these laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Portions of the Affordable Care Act became effective in 2014, and while the act has a substantial impact on the health insurance and health care industries, it does not directly affect our life insurance and annuity business as we no longer underwrite or administer any health insurance products. The Act will likely have an impact on our exclusive agents as most of our agents sell medical insurance through a brokerage arrangement with third parties. Some of our exclusive agents who have a substantial number of health insurance customers are likely to see some changes in their income in future years, but the nature of any such change is impossible to determine at this time. The Act also applies to us as an employer, but to date, the impact on our organization in this area has been minimal. Exclusive agents who are also registered representatives of our affiliated broker-dealer may be affected by rules required by Dodd-Frank that would create an as-yet undefined fiduciary relationship between the registered representative and their customers. It is too early to tell what effect there will be until the rule making process has been completed. Our investment management subsidiary is an SEC-registered investment adviser. This entity manages funds primarily for affiliated companies, but also manages funds for a few non-affiliated organizations. It also provides administrative services to our separate accounts, which are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. Our registered separate accounts are themselves highly regulated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, our broker-dealer subsidiary is registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and various state securities laws, and is a member of and subject to regulation by FINRA. Registered representatives sell variable products and mutual funds through our affiliated broker/dealer and are regulated by FINRA and state securities regulators. We are not aware of any proposed or future legislation or rule making by any regulator that is likely to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operational flexibility.Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This includes the current work by accounting standards setting bodies on a project evaluating the accounting for insurance contracts. It is uncertain what the outcome of that project will be or when it will be completed. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. An inability to access Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) funding could adversely affect our profitability. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) in 2010 issued an Announced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR). The purpose of the ANPR is to seek comment on several possible changes to the requirements applicable to members of the FHLB. Any changes to such requirements that eliminate our eligibility for continued FHLB membership or limit our FHLB borrowing capacity could have an adverse effect on us. The FHFA also released an advisory bulletin on the particular risks associated with lending to insurance companies as opposed to banks, which includes standards for evaluating lending to an insurance company member. These standards are broad and raise concerns about the insurance regulatory framework and of FHLB creditor status in the event of insurer insolvency. The recommended standards could result in stricter regulation of, or a reduced incidence of, FHLB-insurer lending. In response to these initiatives, Iowa and certain other states are reviewing amendments to legislation which would alter the status of insurance company collateral used in FHLB loans. Any event that adversely affects FHLB lending to us could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Actual experience which differs from our assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality and interest rates used in pricing our products and calculating reserve amounts and deferred acquisition costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.The process of pricing products and calculating reserve amounts and deferred acquisition costs for an insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with the 17Table of Contentscompany), mortality (the relative incidence of death in a given time) and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. Actual experience which differs from one or more of these assumptions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) include certain direct costs of successfully acquiring new insurance business, including commissions and other expenses related to the production of new business, to the extent recoverable from future policy revenues and gross profits. Also included are premium bonuses and bonus interest credited to contracts during the first contract year only. We amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. We test the DAC recorded on our consolidated balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC for those products for which we amortize DAC in proportion to gross profits. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in DAC that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Increases in actual or expected future withdrawals or surrenders and investment losses, which are more likely in a severe economic recession, would result in an acceleration of DAC amortization. In addition, significant or sustained equity and bond market declines could result in an acceleration of DAC amortization related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts.Our earnings are influenced by our claims experience, which is difficult to estimate for future periods. If our future claims experience does not match our pricing assumptions or past results, our earnings could be materially adversely affected.Our earnings are significantly influenced by the claims paid under our insurance contracts and will vary from period to period depending upon the amount of claims incurred. There is only limited predictability of claims experience within any given quarter or year. The liability that we have established for future insurance and annuity policy benefits is based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including interest rates, expected claims, persistency and expenses. In the event our future experience does not match our pricing assumptions or our past results, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.Our reinsurance program involves risks because we remain liable with respect to the liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them. We reinsure a portion of our life insurance exposure with unaffiliated insurance companies under traditional indemnity reinsurance agreements. New sales of life products are reinsured above prescribed limits and do not require the reinsurer's prior approval within certain guidelines. We enter into indemnity reinsurance arrangements to assist in diversifying our risks and to limit our maximum loss on risks that exceed our policy retention limits. Our maximum retention limit on an insured life ranges up to $1.5 million depending upon when the policy was issued. Indemnity reinsurance does not fully discharge our obligation to pay claims on the reinsured business. As the ceding insurer, we remain responsible for policy claims to the extent the reinsurer fails to pay claims. Should any reinsurer fail to meet the obligations assumed under such reinsurance, we remain liable, and payment of these obligations could result in losses. To limit the possibility of such losses, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our business is highly dependent on our relationships with Farm Bureau organizations and could be adversely affected if those relationships became impaired.Farm Bureau Life's business relies significantly upon the maintenance of our right to use the Farm Bureau and FB trade names and related trademarks and service marks which are controlled by the American Farm Bureau Federation and state Farm Bureau organizations. See discussion under "Item 1. Business - Marketing and Distribution - Affiliation with Farm Bureau" for information regarding these relationships and circumstances under which our access to the Farm Bureau membership base and use of the Farm Bureau and FB designations could be terminated. We believe our relationship with the Farm Bureau organizations provides a number of advantages. Farm Bureau organizations in our marketing territory tend to be well known and long established, have active memberships and provide a number of member benefits other than financial services. The strength of these organizations provides enhanced prestige and brand awareness for our products and increased access to Farm Bureau members. The loss of the right to use these designations in a key state or states could have a material adverse effect on operating results. 18Table of ContentsOur relationship with Farm Bureau organizations could result in conflicts of interests.Our business and operations are interrelated to a degree with that of the American Farm Bureau Federation, its affiliates, and state Farm Bureau organizations. The overlap of the business, including service of certain common executive officers and directors of the Company and the state Farm Bureau organizations, may give rise to conflicts of interest among these parties. Conflicts could arise, for example, with respect to business dealings among the parties, the use of a common agency force, the sharing of employees, space and other services and facilities under intercompany agreements, and the allocation of business opportunities between them. Conflicts of interest could also arise between the Company and the various state Farm Bureau organizations in our life-only states, some of whose presidents serve as directors of the Company, and which control their state affiliated property-casualty insurance company, with respect to the use of the common agency force. We have adopted a conflict of interest policy which requires a director to disclose to the Board of Directors and any appropriate committee of the Board, the existence of any transaction or proposed transaction in which the Director has a direct or indirect interest, and the material facts relating thereto. Changes in federal tax laws may affect sales of our products and profitability. The annuity and life insurance products that we market generally offer income tax advantages to policyholders as compared to other savings instruments, such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds. Current federal income tax law allows for the deferral of income tax on the earnings during the accumulation period of certain annuity or insurance policies, as opposed to the current taxation of other savings instruments. In addition, life insurance death benefits are generally exempt from the income tax. Legislation eliminating this tax deferral or tax exemption for death benefits, or changes to reduce the taxation of competing products, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Congress has from time to time considered legislation that would increase the amount of income tax expense incurred by insurance companies, including proposals to reduce the deduction for dividends received on assets held in separate accounts to support variable products. Reduction or elimination of federal tax credits for low-income housing has also been discussed as a potential means to reduce federal budget deficits. To the extent legislation were enacted that includes either of these items, we would incur additional income tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. Our ability to maintain competitive costs is dependent upon the level of new sales and persistency of existing business.Maintaining competitive costs depends upon numerous factors, including the level of new sales, persistency of existing business and expense management. A decrease in sales or persistency without a corresponding reduction in expenses could affect our business and results of operations.If we are unable to attract and retain agents, sales of our products and services may be reduced. We compete to attract and retain exclusive agents for Farm Bureau Life. Intense competition exists for persons with demonstrated ability. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation, products, compensation, support services, rating agency ratings and financial position. Sales and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents.Attracting and retaining employees who are key to our business is critical to our growth and success.The success of our business and the ability to reach goals is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition is intense in the job market for certain positions, such as actuaries and other insurance professionals with demonstrated ability, particularly with our headquarters being located in central Iowa, a hub of insurance company home offices, where we compete with other insurance and financial institutions. Our employees are not subject to employment contracts, except for a retention agreement with our Chief Executive Officer. There can be no certainty regarding the length of time any of our named executive officers will remain with us. To mitigate the risk following the loss of any named executive, we have succession and leadership development plans in place for all executive management positions. Our inability to retain our key employees, or attract and retain additional qualified employees, could materially adversely affect our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements. Our business is dependent upon effective technology for interacting with employees, agents, policyholders, vendors, agents, third parties and investors. It is crucial to our business to reach a large number of people and secure, store and provide sizable 19Table of Contentsamounts of information. If we do not maintain adequate systems to reflect technological advancements, we could experience adverse consequences including inadequate pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions, regulatory problems, security breaches or litigation exposure. This could adversely affect our relationships and ability to do business with our clients and make it difficult to attract new customers. Our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products and systems to meet their needs, and our information systems require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. We are continuously enhancing and updating our systems to keep pace with changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, threats and customer demands. Our success is dependent on protecting, maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to buy or build information systems that support our business processes in a cost-effective manner. A technology failure could occur and potentially disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our profitability. Disruptions or breaches could occur as a result of natural disasters, man-made disasters, epidemic/pandemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, criminal activity, technological changes or events, terrorism or other unanticipated events beyond our control. While the company has obtained insurance and has implemented a variety of preventative security measures such as risk management, information protection, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, no predictions of specific scenarios can be made. Unanticipated problems with our systems or recovery plans could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, our results and financial position.We face risks relating to litigation, including the costs of such litigation, management distraction and the potential for damage awards, which may adversely impact our business. We are occasionally involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. In addition, state regulators such as the Iowa Insurance Division, and federal regulators such as the SEC, FINRA, the Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service, regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, tax laws, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. Companies in the life insurance and annuity business have faced litigation, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper product design, improper sales practices and similar claims. Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our exclusive agents, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies and recommending transactions that are not suitable. While we are not a party to any lawsuit that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that such litigation, or any future litigation, will not have such an effect, whether financially, through distraction of our management or otherwise.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.