Item 1A. Risk Factors Introduction Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. These are the most significant risk factors; however, they are not the only risk factors that you should consider in making an investment decision. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains and may incorporate by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See the "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" below. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks that we face, which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. Our business, consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. Weakened global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Weakened global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or in lower profit margins. During periods of economic recession, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices. If we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated revenue, profitability and cash flows. Also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. This could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. This could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. The global nature of our operations in the United States and in 50 foreign countries exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We operate in the United States and in 50 other countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. A large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our U.S. operations. 9 Table of Contents Economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. Risks inherent in our international operations include social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against United States or other interests. In addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. If the settlement of the asbestos-related claims that we have agreed to (the "Settlement agreement") is not implemented, we will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with W. R. Grace & Co. We are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in Canada arising from W. R. Grace & Co.'s activities in Canada prior to the 1998 transaction. On November 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury Claimants (the "ACC") and the Official Committee of Asbestos Property Damage Claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the W. R. Grace & Co. ("Grace") bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates. The Settlement agreement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the Cryovac transaction. The Cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on March 31, 1998, which brought the Cryovac packaging business and the former Sealed Air Corporation's business under the common ownership of the Company. The parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive Settlement agreement as of November 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. On June 27, 2005, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, where the Grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive Settlement agreement. Although Grace is not a party to the Settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, Grace is directed to comply with the Settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. On September 19, 2008, Grace, the ACC, the Asbestos PI Future Claimants' Representative (the "FCR"), and the Official Committee of Equity Security Holders (the "Equity Committee") filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the "PI Settlement Plan") and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement (as filed and amended from time to time, the "PI Settlement Disclosure Statement"), with the Bankruptcy Court. As filed, the PI Settlement Plan would provide for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under Section 524(g) of the United States Bankruptcy Code to which present and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. The PI Settlement Plan also contemplates that the terms of our definitive Settlement agreement will be incorporated into the PI Settlement Plan and that we will pay the amount contemplated by that agreement. If confirmed, the PI Settlement Plan may implement the terms of the Settlement agreement, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case. The terms of the PI Settlement Plan remain subject to amendment. Moreover, the PI Settlement Plan is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including the availability of exit financing and the approval of both the Bankruptcy Court and United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the "District Court"). A number of objections to the PI Settlement Plan have been filed and remain unresolved, and certain of these objections concern injunctions, releases and provisions as applied to us and/or that are contemplated by the Settlement agreement. The Bankruptcy Court has conducted hearings to consider confirmation of the PI Settlement Plan and has heard closing arguments with respect to the PI Settlement Plan, but additional hearings may be held by 10 Table of Contents the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court to consider matters related to the PI Settlement Plan. We do not know whether or when a final plan of reorganization will become effective. Assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the PI Settlement Plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, approved by the District Court, and does become effective, we do not know whether the final plan of reorganization will be consistent with the terms of the Settlement agreement and if the other conditions to our obligation to pay the Settlement agreement amount will be met. If these conditions are not satisfied or not waived by us, we will not be obligated to pay the amount contemplated by the Settlement agreement. However, if we do not pay the Settlement agreement amount, we and our affiliates will not be released from the various claims against us. If the Settlement agreement does not become effective, either because Grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because Grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the Settlement agreement, then we and our affiliates will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us and our affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. In that case, we could face liabilities that are significantly different from our obligations under the Settlement agreement. We cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. In the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Since November 2004, the Company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in Canada as a result of Grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in Canada prior to the Cryovac transaction in 1998. Grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. The Canadian cases are currently stayed. A global settlement of these Canadian claims to be funded by Grace has been approved by the Canadian court, and the PI Settlement Plan provides for payment of these claims. We do not have any positive obligations under the Canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. The release in favor of the Grace parties (including us) will become operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in Grace's United States Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. As filed, the PI Settlement Plan contemplates that the claims released under the Canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. By its terms, the Canadian settlement will, unless amended, become null and void if a confirmation order in the Grace U.S. bankruptcy proceeding is not granted prior to December 31, 2010. We can give no assurance that the PI Settlement Plan (or any other plan of reorganization) will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, approved by the District Court, or will become effective. Assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the PI Settlement Plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, approved by the District Court, and does become effective, if the final plan of reorganization does not incorporate the terms of the Canadian settlement or if the Canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the Canadian courts, and if in addition Grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. For further information concerning these matters, see Note 16, "Commitments and Contingencies," of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption "Cryovac Transaction Commitments and Contingencies." A downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative impact on our costs and ability to access credit markets. Our long-term senior unsecured debt is currently rated BB+ (stable outlook) by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC. This rating is considered below investment grade. Our long-term senior unsecured debt is currently rated Baa3 (negative outlook) by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. This rating is considered investment grade. If our credit ratings are further downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets, and our borrowing costs could increase. 11 Table of Contents Raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. We use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. Increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. We also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as "mad cow" disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or "bird-flu," as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. We manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. Various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. In recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird flu have surfaced in various countries. Outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. Also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. These factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Concerns about greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about GHG emissions and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. Increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. Disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. Our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our global credit facility, our European credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program, as described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our accounts receivable securitization program includes a bank financing commitment that must be renewed annually prior to the expiration date. The bank commitment is scheduled to expire on December 3, 2010. While the bank is not obligated to renew the bank financing commitment, we have negotiated annual renewals since the commencement of the program in 2001. Additionally, recent conditions in financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of some financial institutions, could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. For example, a lender under our global credit facility or the European credit facility may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. 12 Table of Contents Covenant restrictions under our credit arrangements may pose a risk. We have a number of credit facilities, including our global credit facility and our European credit facility, and also have an accounts receivable securitization program, as well as debt securities we have issued to manage liquidity and fund operations as described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The agreements relating to these facilities and securities generally contain certain restrictive covenants, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, restriction of liens and sale and leaseback transactions, financial covenants relating to interest coverage, debt leverage and minimum liquidity, and restrictions on consolidation and merger transactions, as well as, in some cases, restrictions on amendments to the Settlement agreement. In addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization program can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. As a result of the impact of some of these factors, the amount available to us under the program has decreased. Although we do not believe that any of these covenants or other restrictive provisions presently materially restricts our liquidity position, a breach of one or more of the covenants or an event that triggers other restrictive provisions could result in material adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. This in turn could result in a further decline in amounts available under the accounts receivable securitization program or termination of the program. Such adverse consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering the obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders or the bank commitment related to our accounts receivable securitization program, refusal by lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities, or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. During 2009, approximately 54% of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are relatively concentrated in the United States compared with sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the U.S. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. While we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency effects. We may have to recognize foreign exchange gains and/or losses related to the recent currency devaluation in Venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, effective January 1, 2010. See "Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk," of Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," for further discussion. We may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. See Note 12, "Derivatives and Hedging Activities," of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, which is contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the Settlement agreement and the other than temporary impairment of our investments in auction rate securities, may be affected by a number of factors. We have deferred tax assets related to the Settlement agreement, the other than temporary impairment of our investments in auction rate securities, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. We have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our future operating results. We expect to realize these assets over an extended period. Consequently, changes in tax laws could cause actual results to differ from projections. 13 Table of Contents Our largest deferred tax asset relates to our Settlement agreement, including accrued interest. The value of this asset may be affected by our tax situation at the time of the payment under the Settlement agreement as well as by the value of our common stock at that time. The deferred tax asset reflects the fair market value of 18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share based on the price when the Settlement agreement was reached in 2002. Our annual effective tax rate can materially change as a result of changes in our U.S. and foreign mix of earnings and other factors including changes in tax laws and changes by regulatory authorities. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. For example, recent legislative proposals to change U.S. taxation of non-U.S. earnings or a failure to extend the U.S. research and experimentation credit could increase our effective tax rate. Also, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective tax rate. We experience competition in our operating segments and in the geographic areas in which we operate. Our products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. We compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. A number of competing domestic and foreign companies are strong, well established companies. Our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. A slowing pipeline of new technologies and solutions at favorable margins could adversely affect our performance and prospects for future growth. Our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. The development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. New products may not meet sales expectations or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to; accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; and achieve manufacturing efficiencies. A major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business. If we experienced a natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain, or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The price of our common stock has on occasion experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. One stockholder has beneficial ownership of approximately 37% of our common shares. The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations greater than those experienced by the broader stock market. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the W. R. Grace & Co. bankruptcy, additional litigation against us, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our customers, suppliers and competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 14 Table of Contents The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. According to a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 12, 2010, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P. reported beneficial ownership of 58,959,652 shares, or approximately 37%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As such, Davis Selected Advisers has a significant voting block with respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. While the Schedule 13G/A filed by Davis Selected Advisers, L.P. indicates that the beneficially owned shares of our common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the Company, if that stockholder were to change its purpose for holding our common stock from investment to attempting to change or influence our management, this concentration of our common stock could potentially affect the Company and the price of our common stock. Weakness in the financial and credit markets and other factors could potentially lead to the impairment of the carrying amount of our goodwill and other long-lived assets and our investments in auction rate securities. We have seven reporting units that are included in our segment reporting structure. The six reporting units with goodwill balances allocated to them are Food Packaging, Food Solutions, Protective Packaging, Shrink Packaging, Specialty Materials and Medical Applications. We test goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit basis annually during the fourth quarter of each year and at other times if events or changes in circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. Prior to our 2009 annual testing, we tested the goodwill of some of our reporting units at certain times earlier in the year, but no impairment charges were recorded. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed step one of our annual impairment test and fair value analysis for goodwill, and there were no impairments present and no impairment charge was recorded. We had the estimated fair values updated for all of our reporting units, except for the New Ventures reporting unit because this reporting unit does not have any goodwill included in its net asset value. Although we determined that there was no goodwill impairment in 2009, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a decrease in our expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, a decline in current market multiples, a decline in our common stock price, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could require an interim assessment for some or all of the reporting units before the next required annual assessment. In the event of significant adverse changes of the nature described above, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We recorded a total of $38.0 million of pre-tax charges in 2009 and 2008 as a result of recognizing impairment related to other than temporary declines in the estimated fair market value of our auction rate securities investments. This impairment was due to the continuing decline in the creditworthiness of the issuers of these securities and the lack of a market for auction rate securities generally. The original cost of our auction rate securities investments was $44.7 million and the estimated remaining fair market value was $13.7 million at December 31, 2009 and $10.7 million at December 31, 2008. We continue to monitor developments in the market for auction rate securities including the specific securities in which we have invested. If liquidity conditions relating to these securities or the issuers worsen, we may recognize additional other than temporary impairments, which would result in the recognition of additional losses on our consolidated statement of operations. Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. We could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. 15 Table of Contents Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. Our subsidiaries hold substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations, and as a result we rely on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air Corporation (US). These two subsidiaries, directly and indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of our business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. Therefore, we depend on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of our common stock. Contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which we or any of our subsidiaries may become subject, tax inefficiencies and the financial condition and operating requirements of subsidiaries may reduce funds available for service of our indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking statements so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. Some of our statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in our future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. These statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. These forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future financial performance and future business plans. Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "anticipates," "believes," "could be," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. The following are important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements: the implementation of our Settlement agreement regarding the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with W. R. Grace & Co.; general economic conditions, particularly as they affect packaging use; credit ratings; raw material pricing and availability; changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; pandemics; legal and environmental matters involving us; and the other risk factors set forth above. Except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 