Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks discussed in “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our business is subject to the risks set forth below. Nexavar® (sorafenib) tablets is our only product, and we do not have any other product candidates in Phase II or Phase III clinical development. If Nexavar is not commercially successful, we may be unable to identify and promote alternative product candidates and our business would fail. Nexavar is our only product. In June 2003, following an unsuccessful search for new collaboration partners for our therapeutic virus product candidates, including ONYX-015 and ONYX-411, we announced that we were discontinuing the development of all therapeutic virus product candidates, eliminating all employee positions related to these candidates and terminating all related research and manufacturing capabilities. As a result, we do not have internal research and preclinical development capabilities. Our scientific and administrative employees are dedicated to managing our relationship with Bayer, and the development and commercialization of Nexavar, but are not actively discovering or developing new product candidates. As a result of the termination of our therapeutic virus program and drug discovery programs, we do not have a clinical development pipeline beyond Nexavar. If Nexavar is not commercially successful, we may be unable to identify and promote alternative product candidates to later stage clinical development, which would cause our business to fail. Our clinical trial of Nexavar in kidney cancer may not yield statistically significant overall survival data, which may negatively impact the commercialization of Nexavar. In March 2005, an independent data monitoring committee reviewed the safety and efficacy data from our ongoing Phase III trial of Nexavar in kidney cancer and concluded that the trial met its co-primary endpoint, resulting in statistically significant longer progression-free survival in those patients administered Nexavar versus those patients administered placebo. As a result, in July 2005, we and Bayer filed an NDA seeking approval of Nexavar to treat patients with kidney cancer in the United States. In September 2005, Bayer also filed a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, for the approval to market Nexavar within the European Union to treat patients with kidney cancer. In April 2005, we and Bayer recommended that all patients in our ongoing Phase III kidney cancer trial be offered access to Nexavar. This decision followed further review of the progression-free survival data, as well as additional discussions with the principal investigators, an independent data monitoring committee, and the FDA. As a result, patients who were previously administered placebo in the trial could have elected to receive Nexavar. This action has reduced the number of patients in the trial receiving placebo and is expected to negatively impact our ability to obtain statistically significant data on overall survival of patients with kidney cancer participating in this clinical trial. In November 2005, an investigator-reported interim analysis on overall survival of patients in the Phase III kidney cancer trial was presented at the thirteenth European Cancer Conference, or ECCO. The analysis, which was based on the 220 deaths that had occurred by May 31, 2005, was conducted while the Phase III kidney cancer study was ongoing and soon after we and Bayer offered access to Nexavar to all patients in the trial, including those who had been receiving placebo. The investigator reported there was a 28% reduction in the risk of dying for patients receiving Nexavar compared to those who were not. While this represents a positive trend, with a p-value of 0.018, the data was not sufficient to be considered statistically significant according to the predefined specifications for this interim analysis. P-values are used to indicate the probability that results observed in two different samples are different due to chance alone, as opposed to a benefit due to the intervention, such as treatment with Nexavar. In order for the interim analysis of survival data reported by the investigator to be considered statistically significant, the p-value would have had to be less than 0.0005. The final survival analysis, which is planned when 540 deaths have occurred, is not expected for some time. Cross over of patients from placebo to Nexavar is likely to negatively impact our ability to obtain statistically significant overall survival data. Nexavar may be at a competitive disadvantage to third 15 parties’ drugs if they generate statistically significant overall survival data which could impair our ability to successfully market Nexavar. Nexavar has not been approved for sale outside of the United States, and may never receive foreign marketing approval. In July 2005, we and Bayer filed for approval of Nexavar based on the progression-free survival data. While the FDA granted full approval in December 2005, we and Bayer do not know whether foreign regulatory authorities will grant approval to Nexavar as a treatment for kidney cancer. The foreign regulatory authorities may not be satisfied with the safety and efficacy data submitted in support of the foreign applications, which could result in either non-approval or a requirement of additional clinical trials or further analysis of existing data. Lack of marketing approval in a particular country would prevent us from selling Nexavar in that country, which could harm our business. In particular, if we do not receive approval from the EMEA to sell Nexavar in Europe, we will be prevented from selling into this potentially large market. Nexavar was approved by the FDA for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer on the basis of the progression-free survival endpoint. Since we have not yet performed the final analysis on overall survival, we do not know whether we will achieve a statistically significant outcome on this endpoint. We expect that our ability to obtain statistically significant overall survival data will be negatively impacted by our April 2005 decision to allow patients that had been receiving placebo to elect to receive Nexavar. The EMEA and other regulatory authorities may have concerns or require further analysis of the manner in which tumor progression was determined. It is possible that in the absence of statistically significant overall survival data, Nexavar will not receive marketing approval by the EMEA or in individual countries, or will receive more limited approval than that granted by the FDA. In addition to the question of whether Nexavar has demonstrated sufficient efficacy in the treatment of kidney cancer, the EMEA and other regulatory authorities may have questions about the safety of the drug. For example, there were instances of greater adverse events in the treatment arm relative to the placebo arm of the most recent Phase III trial. In addition, as an element of the foreign approval process, the applicable regulatory authority must be satisfied with the processes and facilities for drug manufacture, which includes a physical inspection of those facilities. Any conclusion that there are shortcomings in the processes, facilities, or quality control procedures related to manufacture of the drug could result in a significant delay in foreign approval. For these or other reasons, there is no assurance that Nexavar will receive foreign approval on the basis of the current application without amendment, if it is approved at all. There is a competing therapy approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, and we expect the number of approved therapies could rapidly increase, which could harm the prospects for Nexavar in this indication. Pfizer’s drug, Sutent, a multi-kinase inhibitor, was recently approved by the FDA for treating patients with Gleevec-resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST, and Sutent also received accelerated approval for advanced kidney cancer. Pfizer has also submitted an MAA to the EMEA for Sutent. The FDA approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be used as a first-line therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer. Similarly, Sutent can also be used to treat first-line patients. Moreover, Genentech’s Avastin has been reported to have activity in kidney cancer, and Genentech has indicated that Avastin is now being used off-label for treatment of some kidney cancer patients. Both Genentech and Pfizer have pivotal Phase III kidney cancer studies underway in first-line patients that may include superior progression-free survival or overall survival data. It is not currently known which of Nexavar and these potential new kidney cancer products, if any, will be accepted by the medical community as the standard of care. The use of any particular therapy may limit the use of a competing therapy with a similar mechanism of action. In addition, Wyeth is conducting a Phase III study of CCI-779, an mTOR inhibitor, in patients with advanced kidney cancer. Pfizer also has an earlier stage compound, AG-013736, a multi-kinase inhibitor, which is in clinical development and being evaluated in kidney cancer patients. Historically, the most commonly used therapeutic agents for patients suffering from metastatic kidney cancer were interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-alpha (IFN). 16 With the development and approval of new anticancer therapies, it is anticipated that the initial, or first-line, treatment for many of these patients could shift to the new therapeutic products. The successful introduction of new therapies could significantly reduce the potential market for Nexavar in this indication. Decreased demand or price for Nexavar would harm our ability to realize revenue and profits from Nexavar which could cause our stock price to fall. If our clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective for cancer types other than kidney cancer, we will be unable to broadly commercialize Nexavar as a treatment for cancer, and our business may fail. In collaboration with Bayer, we are conducting multiple clinical trials of Nexavar. We have completed Phase I single-agent clinical trials of Nexavar. We are currently conducting a number of Phase Ib clinical trials of Nexavar in combination with other anticancer agents. Phase I trials are not designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate but rather to test safety; to study pharmacokinetics, or how drug concentrations in the body change over time; to study pharmacodynamics, or how the drug candidate acts on the body over a period of time; and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. With Bayer, we have completed Phase II clinical trials of Nexavar in kidney and liver cancer and are currently conducting Phase II clinical trials in breast, non-small cell lung, melanoma and other cancers. Phase II trials are designed to explore the efficacy of a product candidate in several different types of cancers and may be randomized and double-blinded to ensure that the results are due to the effects of the drug. In addition, in March 2005, we and Bayer initiated a Phase III clinical trial of Nexavar in patients with liver cancer. In May 2005, we and Bayer initiated a Phase III clinical trial of Nexavar in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with malignant melanoma. In February 2006, we and Bayer initiated a Phase III clinical trial of Nexavar in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with NSCLC. Phase III trials are designed to more rigorously test the efficacy of a product candidate and are normally randomized and double-blinded. Although we have received FDA approval for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer, the efficacy of Nexavar has not been proven in other types of cancer. Historically, many companies have failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of pharmaceutical product candidates in Phase III clinical trials notwithstanding favorable results in Phase I or Phase II clinical trials. In addition, if previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed, we may not proceed with further clinical trials of Nexavar. In our clinical trials, we treat patients who have failed conventional treatments and who are in advanced stages of cancer. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to Nexavar. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to an erroneous conclusion regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective as a treatment for types of cancer other than kidney cancer, which would prevent us from marketing Nexavar as a treatment for those other types of cancer, limiting the potential market for the product, which may cause our business to fail. If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, approval for Nexavar could be revoked, sales of Nexavar could decline, and we may be unable to develop Nexavar as a treatment for other types of cancer. The approved package insert for Nexavar for the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer warns of a number of observed adverse side effects: • Hypertension may occur early in the course of therapy and blood pressure should be monitored weekly during the first six weeks of therapy and treated as needed. • Incidence of bleeding, regardless of causality, was 15 percent for Nexavar vs. 8 percent for placebo and the incidence of treatment-emergent cardiac ischemia/infarction was 2.9 percent for Nexavar vs. 0.4 percent for placebo. 17 • Most common treatment-emergent adverse events with Nexavar were diarrhea, rash/desquamation, fatigue, hand-foot skin reaction, alopecia and nausea. Grade 3/ 4 adverse events were 38 percent for Nexavar vs. 28 percent for placebo. • Women of child-bearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant and advised against breast-feeding. In cases of any severe or persistent side effects, temporary treatment interruption, dose modification or permanent discontinuation should be considered. If additional adverse side effects emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the Nexavar patient population, the FDA could modify or revoke its approval of Nexavar or we may choose to withdraw it from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain approval of Nexavar in additional indications and foreign regulatory agencies may decline to approve Nexavar for use in any indication. Any of these outcomes would have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar were to suffer harm as a result of their use of Nexavar, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to manufacture and to further develop and commercialize Nexavar. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent the development and commercialization of Nexavar. Our strategy for manufacturing and further developing and commercializing Nexavar depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense, which would significantly increase our capital requirements and limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from further commercializing Nexavar. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer are conducting multiple clinical trials of Nexavar. We and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Under our agreement with Bayer, we have the opportunity to fund 50 percent of clinical development costs worldwide except in Japan, where Bayer will fund 100 percent of development costs and pay us a royalty on net sales. We are currently funding 50 percent of development costs for Nexavar and depend on Bayer to fund the balance of these costs. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer does not, however, create an obligation for either us or Bayer to fund additional development of Nexavar, or any other product candidate. If a party declines to fund development or ceases to fund development of a product candidate under the collaboration agreement, then that party will be entitled to receive a royalty on any product that is ultimately commercialized, but not to share in profits. Bayer could, upon 60 days notice, elect at any time to terminate its co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer terminates its co-funding of Nexavar development, we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could cause our business to fail. Bayer has been the sponsor for all regulatory filings with the FDA. As a result, we have been dependent on Bayer’s experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Bayer has limited experience in developing drugs for the treatment of cancer. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides for Bayer to advance us creditable milestone-based payments. Bayer advanced us a total of $40.0 million pursuant to this provision. These funds are repayable out of a portion of our future profits and royalties, if any, from any of our products. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer terminates when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or upon the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. Bayer holds the global patent applications related to Nexavar. We currently anticipate that, if issued, the United States patent related to Nexavar will 18 expire in 2022, subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to which and the term of which cannot presently be calculated. We are subject to a number of additional risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: • the amount and timing of resource expenditures can vary because of decisions by Bayer; • possible disagreements as to development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • the right of Bayer to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice and for reasons outside our control; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by Bayer following the development or acquisition by it of competing products; and • possible disagreements with Bayer regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Bayer, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing or commercializing Nexavar, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If Bayer’s business strategy changes, it may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. Bayer may change its business strategy. Decisions by Bayer to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the oncology field, or to add competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentive to promote Nexavar. A change in Bayer’s business strategy may adversely affect activities under its collaboration agreement with us, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Bayer may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides that if Onyx is acquired by another entity by reason of merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and Bayer does not consent to the transaction, then for 60 days following the transaction, Bayer may elect to terminate Onyx’s co-development and co-promotion rights under the collaboration agreement. If Bayer were to exercise this right, Bayer would gain exclusive development and marketing rights to the product candidates developed under the collaboration agreement, including Nexavar. If this happened, Onyx, or the successor to Onyx, would receive a royalty based on any sales of Nexavar and other collaboration products, rather than a share of any profits. In this case, Onyx or its successor would be permitted to continue co-funding development, and the royalty rate would be adjusted to reflect this continued risk-sharing by Onyx or its successor. These provisions of our collaboration agreement with Bayer may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring Onyx. Our clinical trials could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all. Although for planning purposes we project the commencement, continuation and completion of ongoing clinical trials for Nexavar, the actual timing of these events may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including actions by Bayer, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria and shortages of available drug supply. We may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar as projected or at all. We rely on Bayer, academic institutions and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor most clinical trials involving Nexavar. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. 19 We are directly supervising and monitoring on our own certain Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of Nexavar for the treatment of malignant melanoma. Onyx has not conducted a clinical trial that has led to an NDA filing. Consequently, we may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully execute and complete these planned clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar for the target indication. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in our planned clinical trials would prevent us from commercializing Nexavar in melanoma, and thus seriously harm our business. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, and many of our competitors have substantially greater managerial resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market product candidates that will compete with other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many other companies are actively seeking to develop products that have disease targets similar to those we are pursuing. Some of these competitive product candidates are in clinical trials, and others are approved. Competitors that target the same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates in clinical development include Pfizer, Novartis International AG, AstraZeneca PLC, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Genentech, Inc., Chiron Corporation and Abgenix, Inc., among others. A number of companies have agents targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor, or VEGF; VEGF receptors; Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF; EGF receptors; and other enzymes. These agents include antibodies and small molecules. OSI Pharmaceuticals with Tarcevatm, a small molecule inhibitor of the EGF receptor has been approved in the United States for treatment of NSCLC and pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine. Companies working on developing antibody approaches include Abgenix and ImClone Systems, Inc. ImClone has developed Erbitux, which is an antibody targeting the EGF receptor. Erbitux has been approved in the United States and the European Union for treatment of colorectal cancer, as well as in the United States for the treatment of most types of head and neck cancer. Genentech has developed Avastintm, an antibody targeting VEGF, which has received approvals in the United States and the European Union for treatment of colorectal cancer and is in clinical development for kidney cancer. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing product candidates before we do. If we receive FDA approval and commence commercial product sales, we will compete against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. Further, we face numerous competitors working on product candidates to treat each of the diseases for which we are seeking to develop therapeutic products. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, will compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. We may also face competition from other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease and other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for 20 licenses to proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may succeed with technologies or products that are more effective than ours. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets and as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. We have made significant expenditures towards the development of Nexavar and the establishment of a commercialization infrastructure. If Nexavar cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, we may be unable to realize revenue from Nexavar sufficient to offset our expenditures towards its development and commercialization, and our business will suffer. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results will likely fluctuate from fiscal quarter to fiscal quarter, and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Sales of Nexavar commenced in late December 2005. Our operating expenses are largely independent of Nexavar sales in any particular period. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of patient demand for Nexavar, the ability of Bayer’s distribution network to process and ship product on a timely basis, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, investments in sales and marketing efforts to support the sales of Nexavar, investments in the research and development efforts of Nexavar, and expenditures we may incur to acquire additional products. It is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We will need substantial additional funds, and our future access to capital is uncertain. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming clinical trials necessary to develop Nexavar for additional indications, pursue regulatory approval and commercialize this product in Europe and the rest of the world. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the size and complexity of our Nexavar program; • decisions made by Bayer and Onyx to alter the size, scope and schedule of clinical development; • our receipt of milestone-based payments; • progress with clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the cost involved in enforcing patent claims against third parties and defending claims by third parties (both of which are shared with Bayer); • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; • competing technological and market developments; and • global product commercialization activities. We may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses that are unfavorable to us. We believe that our existing capital resources and interest thereon will be sufficient to fund our current development plans into 2008. However, if we change our development plans, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. In addition, we anticipate that our co-development costs for the Nexavar program may increase over the next several years as we continue our share of funding the clinical development program and 21 prepare for the potential product launches of Nexavar throughout the world. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue the co-funding of the Nexavar program in future periods through and beyond 2008. We may have to curtail our funding of Nexavar if we cannot raise sufficient capital. If we do not continue to co-fund the further development of Nexavar, we will receive a royalty on future sales of products, instead of a share of profits. If the specialty pharmacies and distributors that we and Bayer rely upon to sell our products fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Nexavar or complaints about Nexavar; • not effectively sell or support Nexavar; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support Nexavar; • not devote the resources necessary to sell Nexavar in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or • cease operations. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and profits, which would harm our business. We have a history of losses, and we expect to continue to incur losses. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $45.0 million, for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $46.8 million and for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $95.2 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $345.8 million. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. It is not unusual for patients to be offered access to investigational compounds in late-stage clinical development. Such programs involve substantial costs. We expect to incur significant and increasing operating losses over the next several years as we continue our clinical trial activities and, with Bayer, establish commercial infrastructure in Europe and other parts of the world. We expect our operating losses to increase with our co-funding of ongoing Nexavar clinical and commercial activities under our collaboration agreement with Bayer. We and Bayer only began to generate revenues from the sale of Nexavar in December 2005, and we must repay the milestone-based advances we received from Bayer from any future profits and royalties. We have made significant expenditures towards the development and commercialization of Nexavar, and may never realize sufficient product sales to offset these expenditures. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon success by us and Bayer in completing development of Nexavar, obtaining required regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing the approved product. We do not have manufacturing expertise or capabilities and are dependent on Bayer to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could result in lost sales and the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval. Under our collaboration agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar for clinical trials and to support our commercial requirements. However, should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so for us. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar or any future product 22 candidates on our own and would require substantial funds to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties to manufacture our product candidates and products. These parties may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortage of qualified personnel. These third parties may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required by us to successfully market our products. These third parties may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. Failure by these third parties could impair our ability to meet the market demand for Nexavar, and could delay our ongoing clinical trials and our applications for regulatory approval. If these third parties do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses to pay for the manufacture of products or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. We have the right to co-promote Nexavar in the United States, but we do not have proven sales or marketing expertise. We have the right under our collaboration and co-promotion agreements with Bayer to co-promote Nexavar in the United States in conjunction with Bayer. While we have invested heavily in our commercialization infrastructure and intend to continue doing so, we may not successfully establish adequate marketing and sales capabilities or have sufficient resources to do so. If we do not further develop marketing and sales capabilities, we will be unable to meet our co-promotion obligations under our collaboration agreement, which could result in the loss of our co-promotion rights. If we do develop such capabilities, we will compete with other companies that have experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations, and we will incur additional expenses. We will be dependent on the efforts of Bayer to market and promote Nexavar in countries outside the United States where Nexavar may receive approval. Under our collaboration and co-promotion agreements with Bayer, we and Bayer are co-promoting Nexavar in the United States. If we continue to co-promote Nexavar, and continue to co-fund development in the United States, we will share equally in profits or losses, if any, in the United States. We do not, however, have the right to co-promote Nexavar in any country outside the United States, and will be dependent solely on Bayer to promote Nexavar in any foreign countries where Nexavar is approved. In all foreign countries, except Japan, Bayer would first receive a portion of the product revenues to repay Bayer for its foreign commercialization infrastructure, before determining our share of profits and losses. In Japan, we would receive a royalty on any sales of Nexavar. We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar in foreign countries where Nexavar is approved, if any. Bayer may not have sufficient experience to promote oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. If Bayer fails to adequately promote Nexavar in foreign countries, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. If this were to happen, sales of Nexavar in any foreign countries where Nexavar is approved may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business. Similarly, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of regulatory approval. Since we share in the profits and losses arising from sales of Nexavar outside of the United States, rather than receiving a royalty (except in Japan), we are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer’s commercial decisions related to Nexavar as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. If we lose our key employees and consultants or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success will depend in large part on the continued services of our management personnel, including Hollings C. Renton, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward F. Kenney, our 23 Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer and Henry J. Fuchs, our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer as well as each of our other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse impact on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants, other than for our chief executive officer. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. In 2003, we restructured our operations to reflect an increased priority on the development of Nexavar and discontinued our therapeutic virus program. As a result of the restructuring, we eliminated approximately 75 positions, including our entire scientific team associated with the therapeutic virus program. Our remaining scientific and administrative employees are engaged in managing our collaboration with Bayer to develop Nexavar, but are not actively involved in new product candidate discovery. If we resume our research and development of other product candidates, we will need to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. If we cannot hire these individuals in a timely fashion, we will be unable to engage in new product candidate discovery activities. We have rapidly expanded our sales and marketing operations, and any difficulties managing this growth could disrupt our operations. During 2005, in anticipation of the commercial launch of Nexavar in the United States, we rapidly expanded and developed our sales and marketing operations. We increased expenditures in these areas, hired additional employees and expanded the scope of our operations. Prior to December 2005, we did not have any products approved for sale, so our sales and marketing operations, and our ability to manage them, are untested. We do not have any history of managing sales and marketing operations, and may be unable to do so. If we are unable to effectively manage our newly expanded sales and marketing capacity, or if this capacity proves inadequate, we may not be able to implement our business plan. The market may not accept our products and pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. Nexavar or any future product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community or the market may not be as large as forecasted. One factor that may affect market acceptance of Nexavar or any future products we may develop is the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for patients from third-party healthcare payors, such as government and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Nexavar. In addition, the market for Nexavar may be limited by third-party payors who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If Nexavar is not on the approved lists, our sales may suffer. If Nexavar is approved in Europe, its success there will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because in many European countries patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. For example, in Europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. 24 A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products including the following: • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target population; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If Nexavar or any future product candidates that we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, we may not realize sufficient revenues from product sales, which may cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. Drug candidates under development are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign regulation. We have not received regulatory approval in any foreign market for Nexavar or any other product candidate, and have received approval in the United States for the use of Nexavar only in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer. We expect to rely on Bayer to manage communications with regulatory agencies, including filing new drug applications and generally directing the regulatory approval process for Nexavar. We and Bayer may not obtain necessary additional approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we will experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar in particular indications or countries. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may approve only limited label information for the product. The label information describes the indications and methods of use for which the product is authorized, and if overly restrictive may limit our and Bayer’s ability to successfully market any approved product. If we have disagreements as to ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals, and the FDA refuses to recognize us as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing products. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Additional or more rigorous governmental regulations may be promulgated that could delay regulatory approval of Nexavar. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the successful commercialization of Nexavar; • impose costly procedures on us; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Even after Nexavar and any other products we may develop are marketed, the products and their manufacturers are subject to continual review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with Nexavar or manufacturing and production by Bayer or other third parties may result in restrictions on Nexavar, including withdrawal of Nexavar from the market. In addition, problems or failures with the products of others, before or after regulatory approval, including our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for Nexavar. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. 25 We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of drugs or are otherwise found in violation of federal and state regulations in the United States or elsewhere. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may prescribe Nexavar for the treatment of cancers other than advanced kidney cancer, although neither we nor Bayer are permitted to promote Nexavar for the treatment of any indication other than kidney cancer, and the FDA and other regulatory agencies have not approved the use of Nexavar for any other indication. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies may not promote drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, prior to approval of Nexavar for use in any indications other than advanced kidney cancer, we may not promote Nexavar for these indications. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, we depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • license technology rights from others; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. In the case of Nexavar, the global patent applications related to this product candidate are held by Bayer, but licensed to us in conjunction with our collaboration agreement with Bayer. We currently anticipate that, if issued, the United States patent related to Nexavar will expire in 2022, subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to which and the term of which cannot presently be calculated. Patent applications for Nexavar are also pending throughout the world. As of December 31, 2005, we owned or had licensed rights to 51 United States patents and 34 United States patent applications and, generally, foreign counterparts of these filings. Most of these patents or patent applications cover protein targets used to identify product candidates during the research phase of our collaborative agreements with Warner-Lambert Company or Bayer, or aspects of our now discontinued virus program. Additionally, we have corresponding patents or patent applications pending or granted in certain foreign jurisdictions. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our 26 patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar to ours. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may not acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. These activities, and especially patent litigation, are costly. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals, entities or consultants to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. The nature of the limitations depends on various factors, including the type of research being conducted, the ownership of the data and information and the nature of the individual, entity or consultant. In most cases, these individuals, entities or consultants are, at the least, precluded from publicly disclosing our confidential information and are only allowed to disclose other data or information generated during the course of the research after we have been afforded an opportunity to consider whether patent and/or other proprietary protection should be sought. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sale of Nexavar and its ongoing use in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar. We believe that we have obtained reasonably adequate product liability insurance coverage that includes the commercial sale of Nexavar and our clinical trials. However, the cost of insurance coverage is rising. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. For example, during the period beginning January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2005, the closing sales price 27 for one share of our common stock reached a high of $58.75 and a low of $4.65. Factors affecting our stock price include: • interim or final results of, or speculation about, clinical trials from Nexavar; • changes in the regulatory approval requirements; • ability to accrue patients into clinical trials; • success or failure in, or speculation about, obtaining regulatory approval by us or our competitors; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • developments in our relationship with Bayer; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products; • published reports by securities analysts; • statements of governmental officials; and • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. Our executive officers, directors and five-percent stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 24 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Bayer, a collaborative party, has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to have its nominee elected to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and collaborator may be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and determine all corporate actions. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have often brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. Following our announcement in October 2004 of Phase II clinical trial data in patients with advanced kidney cancer, our stock price declined significantly. Our closing stock price on the last trading day before the announcement was $40.81, and our closing stock price on the day of the announcement was $27.34. We may in the future be the target of securities class action litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in a merger or sale of more than ten percent of its assets 28 with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control of us and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: • our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms; • the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; • all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or ten percent or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; and • no cumulative voting. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even at stock prices higher than the then current stock price. We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer’s employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control of Onyx. These change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations. There may be new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an effect on our future financial position and results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or FAS, No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” The revision is referred to as “FAS 123(R) — Share-Based Payment”, which supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and will require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock issued under our employee stock plans. We will adopt FAS 123(R) using the modified prospective basis on January 1, 2006. We expect that the adoption of FAS 123(R) will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our net loss per share. However, our estimate of future stock-based compensation expense will be affected by a number of items including our stock price, the number of stock options our board of directors may grant in 2006, as well as a number of complex and subjective valuation adjustments and the related tax impact. These valuation assumptions include, but are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee stock option exercise behaviors. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 