Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—We have very limited insurance coverage”. In addition, we have taken out basic retirement insurance, basic medical insurance, work-related personal injury insurance policies and child-bearing insurance for our employees. C. Organizational Structure The following table lists the significant subsidiaries of our Company as of December 31, 2011: Name(1) Country ofIncorporation Percentage of Interest heldby our Company Guangshen Railway Station Dongqun Trade and Commerce Service Company Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Fu Yuan Enterprise Development Company Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Guangshen Railway Travel Service Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Pinghu Qun Yi Railway Store Loading and Unloading Company Limited PRC 55 % Dongguan Changsheng Enterprise Company Limited PRC 51 % Shenzhen Railway Station Passenger Services Company Limited PRC 100 % Guangzhou Tielian Economy Development Company Limited PRC 50.5 % Shenzhen Nantie Construction Supervision Company Limited PRC 76.66 % Guangzhou Railway Huangpu Service Company Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Guangshen Railway Economic and Trade Enterprise Company Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Railway Property Management Company Limited PRC 100 % Shenzhen Shenhuasheng Storage and Transportation Company Limited PRC 100 % (1) During the year ended December 2011, the Company liquidated Guangzhou Dongqun Advertising Company Limited and no gain or loss was recognized. D. Property, Plants and Equipment We occupy a total area of approximately 39.7 million square meters, among which, we own the land use right of approximately 11.7 million square meters on which our buildings and facilities of Guangzhou-Shenzhen railway are located, and we lease approximately 28.0 million square meters from GRGC for the Guangzhou-Pingshi Railway. With respect to the land for which we hold the land use rights, the terms range from 36.5 to 50 years, terminating between 2031 and 2055. Pursuant to relevant PRC regulations currently in effect, these land use rights are renewable at the end of their terms upon execution of relevant documentation and payment of applicable fees. With respect to the land leased from GRGC, the term is 20 years, terminating in 2027. Based on the land lease agreement we entered into with GRGC in 2004, we can renew such lease at our discretion upon the expiration of the term of such land lease. 31 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, we had not obtained the land use right certificates, or Land Certificates, of certain parcels of land of our Company with an aggregate area of approximately 1,620,894 square meters. After consultation with our Company’s PRC legal counsel, we believe there is no legal hurdle for us to apply for and to obtain the Land Certificates and we do not believe the current lack of Land Certificates will lead to any material adverse impact on the operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not consider any provision for impairment necessary. As of December 31, 2011, we had not obtained the ownership certificates of certain buildings, or Building Ownership Certificates, with an aggregate area of approximately 554,981 square meters, which had an aggregate carrying value of approximately RMB 992.6 million. After consultation with our Company’s legal counsel, we believe that there is no legal hurdle for us to apply for and obtain the Building Ownership Certificates and it should not lead to any material adverse impact on the operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not consider any provision for impairment necessary. Railroad operators typically require substantial land use rights for track, freight and maintenance yards, stations and related facilities. The availability of convenient rail transportation generally enhances the value of land along a rail line. We have not engaged and do not have any current plans to engage in commercial development of any of our land use rights for use other than in connection with our existing businesses. We do not at present intend to contribute capital to engage in any land development projects in the future. However, we may contribute land use rights not otherwise being fully utilized by us for equity stakes in these projects if we believe these opportunities are economically viable. Any development projects will require approval from PRC government authorities responsible for regulating land development. As of April 26, 2011, we had 48 stations situated on our rail line, of which the Guangzhou East Station is the largest, occupying an area of 402,438 square meters. For additional information regarding our property, plants and equipment, see “