ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, whether oral or written. We wish to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, please read the “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” section beginning on page 1. On February 22, 2005, we announced that our board of directors had determined that our VBT business was no longer viable and, as a result, had authorized a staged wind down of our business. In addition, as discussed above under “Business - Overview,” we previously engaged Asanté Partners LLC to assist us in the exploration of strategic alternatives. On March 9, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of our VBT business to Best Vascular pursuant to 11 Table of Contents the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement. The proposed asset sale transaction was approved by our shareholders at a meeting held on March 7, 2006. As a result of the completion of the asset sale transaction, we have no operating VBT business and are in the process of winding down our remaining obligations and liabilities. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. In connection with the completion of the sale of our VBT business, we have no continuing business operations. Substantially all of our operating assets were related to our VBT business. As a result of the completion of the asset sale transaction, we have no continuing business operations. Since we have no continuing business operations, the only activities to be conducted by the Company are the continued winding down of the business and to manage our current limited assets and to seek out and investigate the commencement or the acquisition of any viable business opportunity by purchase for cash or by exchange for securities of our Company or pursuant to a reorganization or merger through which securities of our Company will be issued or exchanged. We have no source of revenue. Other than limited revenues received on the Company’s cash and investments, we have no source of revenues. We received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that we are not in compliance with their continued listing requirements and we expect to be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market at the open of business on April 3, 2006. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ National Market. On March 23, 2006, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the NASDAQ Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing because, as a result of the sale on March 9, 2006 of the Company’s VBT business to Best Vascular, the Company no longer has an operating business. As a result of the notice the Company received from the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Company expects that its Common Stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market at the open of business on April 3, 2006. Upon delisting, the Company’s Common Stock will not be immediately eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets” and there can be no assurance that the Company’s Common Stock will trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets.” As a result, you should expect that there will be no public trading market of our Common Stock in the near future as a result of its delisting. Best Vascular and BMI could default on their obligations to perform and discharge the assumed liabilities. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement, Best Vascular assumed specified liabilities related to the VBT business, such as liabilities incurred or arising before or after the closing under our supply agreement, dated October 14, 1999, with AEA, and liabilities incurred or arising after the closing under those certain patent infringement lawsuits filed against us by Calmedica pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia and the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. BMI agreed to guarantee the full and faithful performance by Best Vascular of all the obligations of Best Vascular under the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement. If Best Vascular and BMI fail to perform and discharge the assumed liabilities, including circumstances in which Best Vascular and BMI do not have the financial resources to perform and discharge the assumed liabilities, then we may remain liable for the assumed liabilities which would decrease the remaining cash available for use in connection with any future strategic deployment. The reporting requirements under rules adopted by the SEC relating to shell companies may delay or prevent us from making certain acquisitions. As a result of recent rules adopted by the SEC, the Company may be deemed to be a shell company. The rules are designed to ensure that investors in shell companies that acquire operations have timely access to the same kind of information as is available to investors in public companies generally. The rules prohibit the use by shell companies of a Form S-8 and revise the Form 8-K to require a shell company to include information that is similar to that required to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act in the filing on Form 8-K that the shell company files to report the acquisition of a business. 12 Table of Contents The generally extensive registration-level information includes, among other information, a detailed description of a company’s business and properties, management, executive compensation, related party transactions, legal proceedings and historical market price information, as well as audited historical financial statements. The revised Form 8-K rules also require a shell company to file pro forma financial statements giving effect to the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some acquisition prospects to prepare such detailed disclosures and obtain audited financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company, or deter potential targets from negotiating with the Company. We have not selected a specified industry in which to acquire or develop a business. Since the completion of the sale of the VBT business to Best Vascular, we have not identified any particular industry or business in which to concentrate our potential interests. Accordingly, prospective investors currently have no basis to evaluate the comparative risks and merits of investing in any industry or business in which our Company may acquire. To the extent that we may acquire a business in a high-risk industry, we will become subject to those risks. Similarly, if we acquire a financially unstable business or a business that is in the early stages of development, we will also become subject to the numerous risks to which those businesses are subject. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation and the payment of substantial damages. The past sale by NOVT and use of our products could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time-consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. We have substantially reduced our workforce as part of our wind down of operations and the sale of our VBT business. We currently have extremely limited personnel resources. During 2004, we engaged in a restructuring of our management organization and significantly reduced our work force. In February 2005, we announced that we were reducing our remaining United States workforce in the first quarter of 2005 by 52 employees, from 81 employees, and terminating the 16 employees we had outside the U.S. in accordance with their contracts and the relevant country’s employment regulations. Following the completion of the asset sale transaction, we terminated 12 employees and as of March 25, 2006 have seven employees. In addition, pursuant to letter agreements entered into with each of our executive officers, Alfred J. Novak, our President and Chief Executive Officer, has agreed that his last day of employment with the Company will be March 31, 2006 unless the parties agree to a one month extension through April 30, 2006; Daniel G. Hall, our Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, has agreed that his last day of employment with the Company will be March 31, 2006; and Subhash C. Sarda, our Chief Financial Officer, has agreed that his last day of employment with the Company will be March 31, 2006. Until a new executive management team is identified and employed, it may be difficult for us to implement any future strategic deployment of our remaining cash. We hold an unsecured promissory note of ONI Medical Systems, Inc. that may not be repaid in full or at all. In May 2005, in connection with a merger agreement with ONI, we extended a $3 million unsecured 18-month loan to ONI. Principal and interest on the loan will be due in November 2006 (unless an event of default occurs in the interim period, in which case the note and interest are accelerated). We terminated the merger agreement with ONI on September 26, 2005. During February 2006, a new federal law was enacted which we believe has the effect of reducing outpatient reimbursement rates for companies such as ONI. This could have the effect of slowing ONI’s business and require faster use of their cash to sustain operations. ONI is a private company and the availability of their financial statements is limited. ONI has not provided us with financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2005. Additionally, they have informed us that, while they had a cash infusion of $7 million in November 2005, they will require further financing during 2006. Although we have received a non-default confirmation certificate dated January 24, 2006 from ONI, as a result of the above we established a reserve as of December 31, 2005 for the ONI promissory note, including interest to that date, of approximately $3.1 million in accordance with the requirements of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. There can be no assurance that ONI will be able to repay the note in November 2006 in full or at all. As a result, we could recoup little or no value for the note. 13 Table of Contents We may continue to incur the expense of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. In the future, in order to curtail such expenses, we might seek relief from the SEC for a substantial portion of the periodic reporting requirements under that Act or we may seek to exit the SEC reporting system. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such relief or exit the SEC reporting system. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 