Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below contain forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Nexavar is currently our main source of commercial revenues. If Nexavar fails and we, independently or in collaboration with Bayer, are unable to successfully commercialize other products, our business would fail. Nexavar generated most of our commercial revenues for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and we rely on these revenues to fund our operations. Unless we can continue to successfully commercialize Kyprolis and other product candidates and Bayer continues to successfully commercialize Stivarga, we will continue to rely on Nexavar to generate most of our revenues and fund our operations. Kyprolis received FDA approval in July 2012 and is in the early stages of commercialization, while our other product candidates are still development-stage and/or subject to regulatory review, and we may never obtain approval of or earn revenues from any of our product candidates. Similarly, Stivarga received FDA approval in September 2012 but Bayer may be unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize it. Successful development and commercialization of these compounds and our other product candidates is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We have never marketed a drug without a partner before, and we may not be able to commercialize Kyprolis successfully. In order to successfully commercialize Kyprolis, we have expanded our U.S. sales force. If we obtain marketing approval outside the United States, we may develop and maintain an international sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure, which may be difficult and time consuming, and may require substantial financial and other resources. We have limited experience maintaining a commercialization infrastructure in the United States and no experience in building such an infrastructure internationally. Factors that may hinder our efforts to maintain our expanded U.S. presence and develop an international sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure include: •inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •inability to establish or maintain relationships with wholesalers and distributors; •inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen delays, costs and expenses associated with creating international capabilities, including an international sales and marketing organization and international supply chain and reimbursement capabilities. If we are unable to sustain our sales force and marketing capability for Kyprolis, it will reduce our ability to generate product revenue, may generate increased expenses and Kyprolis may never become profitable. We expend significant time and resources to train our Kyprolis sales force to be credible, persuasive and compliant in discussing Kyprolis with the specialists treating the patients indicated under label. We must train our sales force to deliver a consistent and appropriate message about Kyprolis to our potential customers. If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of Kyprolis and its proper administration, our ability to successfully commercialize Kyprolis could be diminished, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations. We may also maintain high inventory levels to mitigate risks such as variability in product demand, long lead times for manufacturing, supply interruptions of raw materials and production disruptions at our approved manufacturing sites due to contamination, equipment failure or other facility-related issues. The capital required to maintain our desired inventory levels may impact our liquidity and cash flows, and may also heighten the risk of inventory obsolescence and write-offs. Our stock price is volatile, our operating results are unpredictable, we have a history of losses and we may be unable to achieve and sustain profitability. Our stock price is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on our stock price, including: •fluctuations in our results of operations, including sales of Nexavar, Stivarga and Kyprolis; 23 Table of Contents •results from, or speculation regarding, clinical trials or the regulatory status of Nexavar, Kyprolis, Stivarga or other product candidates; •decisions or changes in policy by regulatory agencies, or changes in regulatory requirements; •announcements by us regarding, or speculation about, our strategic transactions or business development activities; •ability to accrue patients into clinical trials or submit or obtain approval of regulatory filings; •developments in our relationship with Bayer, Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and other commercialization partners; •developments in our relationship with, or other problems at, our contract manufacturing organizations, and problems in our supply chain systems, including recalls, quality problems and stockouts and other similar problems; •changes in healthcare reimbursement policies or other government regulations; •changes in generally accepted accounting principles and changes in tax laws; •announcements by us or our competitors of innovations, clinical data results, new products or new regulatory filings; •sales by us of our common stock or debt securities; and •foreign currency fluctuations, which would affect our share of collaboration profits or losses and net income and expense related to international clinical and commercial operations. In the past, following our announcement of the accelerated approval of Kyprolis or Bayer's announcements regarding lower than anticipated Nexavar sales and Nexavar clinical trial results, and following our announcements about various clinical and regulatory developments for Kyprolis, our stock price has fluctuated, in some cases significantly. Our operating results and sales of Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Our operating expenses are dependent in part on expenses incurred by Bayer and in certain regions are independent of Nexavar sales. We have to date incurred losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. We will incur operating losses in the future as we expand our development and commercial activities for Kyprolis and our product candidates. We expect to incur significant operating expenses associated with the development and commercialization of Kyprolis and additional products, including potentially Stivarga, if we elect to conduct separate development of Stivarga in certain indications, at our own expense, as permitted under the regorafenib agreement. As a result of the acquisition of Proteolix, we may be required to pay up to an additional $365.0 million in three earn-out payments upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals within pre-specified timeframes. We recorded a liability for this contingent consideration for the three earn-out payments with a fair value of $149.2 million at December 31, 2012 based upon a discounted cash flow model that uses significant estimates and assumptions. Any changes to these estimates and assumptions could significantly impact the fair values recorded for this liability resulting in significant charges to our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Moreover, we may, at our discretion, make any of the remaining earn-out payments in the form of cash, shares of Onyx common stock or a combination thereof. If we elect to issue shares of our common stock in lieu of making an earn-out payment in cash, this would have a dilutive effect on our common stock and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results could disappoint securities analysts or investors. Many factors, including, but not limited to, disappointing operating results or the other factors outlined above, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We face intense competition and many of our competitors have substantially greater experience and resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market oncology products that face significant competition from other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Nexavar faces significant competition. There are many existing approaches used in the treatment of unresectable liver cancer including alcohol injection, radiofrequency ablation, chemoembolization, cryoablation and radiation therapy. Several other therapies are in development. If Nexavar is unable to compete or be combined successfully with existing approaches or if new therapies are developed for unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. Similarly, there are several competing therapies approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, including Sutent, a multiple kinase inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Pfizer; Torisel, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Wyeth; Avastin, an angiogenesis inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States and the European Union and marketed by Genentech, a member of the Roche Group; Afinitor, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States and the European Union by Novartis; GlaxoSmithKline's Votrient, a multiple kinase inhibitor, and Pfizer's Inlyta, a kinase inhibitor recently 24 Table of Contents approved by the FDA for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States. Nexavar's market share in advanced kidney cancer has declined following the introduction of these products into the market. We expect competition to increase as generic versions of competing products are introduced and/or additional new products are approved. Beyond unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer, competitors that target the same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates at various stages of clinical development include Pfizer, Roche, Wyeth, Novartis International AG, Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC, Astellas Pharma Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and several others. A number of companies have agents such as small molecules or antibodies targeting VEGF, VEGF receptors, Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF, EGF receptors, and other enzymes. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. A demonstrated survival benefit is often an important element in determining standard of care in oncology. We did not demonstrate a statistically significant overall survival benefit for patients treated with Nexavar in our Phase 3 kidney cancer trial. Competitors with statistically significant overall survival data could be preferred in the marketplace. The FDA approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be marketed as an initial, or first-line, therapy and subsequent lines of therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, but approvals in some other regions do not. For example, the European Union approval indicates Nexavar only for advanced kidney cancer patients that have failed prior cytokine therapy or whose physicians deem alternate therapies inappropriate. We may be unable to compete effectively against products with broader or different marketing authorizations in one or more countries. Nexavar may face challenges and competition from generic products. Generic manufacturers may file Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, in the United States seeking FDA authorization to manufacture and market generic versions of Nexavar, together with Paragraph IV certifications that challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents. If Bayer and we are unsuccessful at challenging an ANDA, the ANDA filer may be able to launch a generic version of Nexavar, which would harm our business. Bayer and we may also be unable to successfully enforce and defend the Nexavar patents, and we may face generic competition prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents in 2020. Similarly, outside the United States, generic drug manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents, requiring Bayer and us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Bayer may be unsuccessful in defending or enforcing the Nexavar patents in one or more countries and could face generic competition prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents, which would harm our business. Generic drug manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of Nexavar. For example, a generic version of Nexavar has been launched in Peru, and Cipla recently received approval to launch its version of Nexavar in India at a price that is significantly less than that charged for Nexavar in India. Recently, India's controller general of patents, designs and trademarks has granted a compulsory license to the Indian generics drug maker, Natco, to make generic Nexavar. The license does not grant Natco the right to sell Nexavar outside of India. Bayer has appealed the ruling. Prior to regulatory approval of Kyprolis, we had not marketed products for any hematological cancer, including multiple myeloma, and may be at a disadvantage to our competitors. Kyprolis may face significant competition. Kyprolis competes with products marketed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Celgene Corporation and potentially against agents currently in development for treatment of this disease by Merck & Co. Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Nereus Pharmaceuticals, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., and other companies. Our competitors may develop and commercialize therapies that change the treatment paradigm for multiple myeloma. For example, Millennium is developing a multiple myeloma therapy to be administered orally and Celgene received marketing authorization from the FDA for pomalidomide in February 2013. Pomalidomide was approved by the FDA with a similar label to Kyprolis in terms of eligible patient population. This could result in Kyprolis being used in later lines due to convenience of pomalidomide oral administration, which could erode new patient share growth and negatively impact Kyprolis sales. Kyprolis, which is administered intravenously, may not compete effectively with orally administered drugs, and we may not succeed in developing an orally administered therapy, which would harm our business. Stivarga may face significant competition. CRC is a competitive marketplace with three approved targeted therapies, one targeted therapy in registration and multiple therapies in phase 3 development. There are currently no approved therapies in the third line plus setting. GIST is a relatively infrequently occurring tumor for which there are currently two therapies approved in adjuvant, first and second line GIST, but none approved in the third line plus setting. Imatinib, marketed by Novartis, is a c-kit inhibitor approved in patients with Kit (CD117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic malignant GIST as well as the adjuvant treatment of adult patients following resection of Kit (CD117) positive GIST. Sunitinib, marketed by Pfizer, is a multi tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved in GIST after disease progression on or intolerance to imatinib. There are several therapies being developed in GIST, most notably phase 3 agents masitinib, by AB Science, and nilotinib by Novartis, and phase 2 agents ganetespib, by Synta, and pazopanib by GlaxoSmithKline. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience and resources available than us to: •discover and patent products; 25 Table of Contents •undertake preclinical testing and human clinical trials; •seek and obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals; •manufacture products; and •market and obtain reimbursement for products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than us in any or all of these areas. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and licensing proprietary technology. We are dependent on Bayer and third parties to manufacture and distribute Nexavar and Stivarga, and do not have the manufacturing expertise or capabilities to manufacture any current or future products. Under our collaboration agreement and regorafenib agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar and Stivarga for clinical trials and for commercialization. Should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so. In addition, we have manufacturing responsibility for Kyprolis and oprozomib, which we currently manufacture through third-party contract manufacturers, and have not yet established back-up manufacturers for these compounds. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar, Stivarga, Kyprolis, oprozomib or any other product candidate on our own and would require substantial funds and time to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties for manufacturing. These parties may encounter difficulties and delays in production scale-up, production yields, control and quality assurance, validation, regulatory status or shortage of qualified personnel. They may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required to test or market our products. They may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. Any production shortfall on the part of our third party manufacturers that impairs the supply, quality or price of starting materials, drug substance or drug product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future prospects. We are dependent on single source suppliers and manufacturers for Kyprolis and have not developed backups. Disruptions to our Kyprolis supply chain could materially reduce our future earnings and prospects. We currently rely on single source suppliers and manufacturers for commercial production of Kyprolis. Significant time and effort is required to develop backup vendors or to replace a vendor in the case of a stoppage. A loss or disruption with any one of our manufacturers or suppliers could disrupt supply of Kyprolis, possibly for a significant time period, and we may not have sufficient inventories to maintain supply before the manufacturer or supplier could be replaced or the disruption is resolved. For example, our contract manufacturer for Kyprolis drug product has experienced media fill failures on the line used to produce Kyprolis, and in January 2013 the line was shut down for scheduled upgrades. Future media fill failures, or delays in restarting the line following scheduled upgrades, could delay the production of clinical or commercial supplies of Kyprolis, in which case we may not have sufficient inventory of Kyprolis product to satisfy our clinical and commercial requirements. In addition, marketed drugs and their contract manufacturing organizations are subject to continual review, including review and approval of their manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing processes, which can result in delays in the regulatory approval process and/or commercialization. Certain of the raw materials and components used in the manufacture of Kyprolis are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in the drug application, so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and may not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. Introducing a replacement or backup manufacturer or supplier for Kyprolis requires a lengthy regulatory and commercial process and there can be no guarantee that we could obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, it is difficult to identify and select qualified suppliers and manufacturers with the necessary technical capabilities, and establishing new supply and manufacturing sources involves a lengthy and technical engineering process. Although we are in the process of developing secondary sources of manufacture and supply for Kyprolis, we have not yet done so and anticipate this process will require significant additional time to complete and we can provide no assurances that we will be successful. If our supply of Kyprolis is disrupted, this would have a negative impact on sales that we anticipate would materially diminish our revenues and future prospects. 26 Table of Contents We rely on a network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: •not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using our products or complaints about our products; •reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support our products; •not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; •be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or •cease operations. Regulatory approval may not be obtained for product candidates besides Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga, or approval may be limited. In addition, additional regulatory approvals may not be obtained for Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga. We have limited experience managing regulatory filings and in negotiating product approval and licensure with regulatory authorities. We and Bayer may not succeed in obtaining additional regulatory approval of Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga or our other product candidates on anticipated timelines or at all. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals would delay or prevent further commercialization of Kyprolis or commercialization of our other product candidates, in the United States and other countries. The review process for a regulatory marketing authorization, including an NDA, in the United States and a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, in Europe, is extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Regulatory agencies such as the FDA or the EMA have significant discretion during the review process and may determine to delay action on or approval of a marketing approval application or limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example, the regulatory agencies may: •conclude the marketing approval application fails to satisfy the requirements for approval; •determine the data resulting from the clinical trials is not satisfactory, or investigators in those clinical trials could disagree with interpretation of the data; •disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of clinical trials or conclude that the data fails to meet statistical or clinical significance or that there is an unmet medical need; •find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies insufficient to demonstrate that the study drug's clinical and other benefits outweighs its safety risks; •disagree with the interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; •reject data generated at clinical trial sites and monitored by third party clinical research organizations, or CROs; •determine that there was not proper oversight of third party CROs and clinical trials; •reject stability data for commercial product; •identify deficiencies in, or lack of control over, manufacturing processes, facilities or analytical methods or those of third party contract manufacturers; •change or adversely impact their position due to unexpected or unpredictable external circumstances; and •change their approval policies, adopt new regulations or provide new guidance with significant requirements not currently included or considered when seeking marketing approval. Even if the FDA, EMA and other regulatory agencies approve marketing of our or Bayer's products, the regulatory agency may impose requirements, conditions and restrictions that could significantly increase costs or delay and limit our and Bayer's ability to successfully commercialize those products. The regulatory agency may require additional pre-clinical, clinical or retrospective observational studies or trials. The FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, which could include a Medication Guide or a Conditions to Assure Safe Use requirement such as special patient monitoring/management to minimize risk of drug-related adverse events. These studies or trials may involve continued testing of the study drug and development of data, including clinical data, about the study drug's effects in various populations and any side effects associated with long-term use. The regulatory agency may require post-marketing studies or trials to investigate known serious risks or signals of serious risks or identify unexpected serious risks and may require periodic status reports if new safety information develops. The regulatory agency may impose label restrictions to address safety concerns or limit the patient population. Such label restrictions could include limited indications and usage, expanded contraindications and expanded warnings and precautions. Any REMS plan, post-marketing studies, trials or commitments or label restrictions could significantly delay, limit, or prevent successful 27 Table of Contents commercialization of a product or otherwise severely harm our business, financial condition and future prospects. Failure to conduct post-marketing studies in a timely manner may also result in substantial civil fines and even future withdrawal of approval to commercialize. Our clinical trials for Nexavar or Kyprolis, and Bayer's clinical trials of Stivarga, could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all. The timing of initiation and completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays resulting from various causes, including actions by Bayer for Nexavar or Stivarga clinical trials, conflicts regarding scheduling or competing clinical trials with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, modification of clinical trial designs, and shortages of available drug supply, including supply of comparator drugs or combination drugs for clinical and commercial purposes. We may face difficulties developing and sustaining relationships with Kyprolis development partners, including clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, key opinion leaders and clinical investigators. We and Bayer may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar, Kyprolis or Stivarga or any of our other product candidates as projected or at all. We may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully manage the execution and completion of clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar, Stivarga, Kyprolis or other product candidates for their target indications. In addition, we rely on Bayer, academic institutions, cooperative oncology organizations and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor the majority of clinical trials involving Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. The timing of review by regulatory authorities is uncertain. Development and commercialization of compounds that appear promising in research or development, including Phase 2 clinical trials, may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for a variety of reasons including: •nonclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; •clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; •regulatory approvals may not be received, or may be delayed due to factors such as slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or preparation of an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application, discussions with regulatory authorities, requests from regulatory authorities for additional preclinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, including possible changes in acceptable trial endpoints, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing or quality issues, changes in policy or objectives at regulatory authorities, and regulatory filings submitted on competing drugs that could alter the regulatory prospects of our drugs; •difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in validating or getting approval for manufacturing; •manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical; •proprietary or contractual rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so; and •contractual rights of our collaborators or others may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so. Failure to continue to successfully develop Stivarga or Kyprolis could harm their commercialization, and failure to successfully launch or commercialize Kyprolis or Stivarga for these or any other reasons would significantly harm our business and future prospects. We may not obtain or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for Kyprolis from third-party payers, which would harm our business In order to successfully commercialize Kyprolis, we must obtain and retain coverage and reimbursement by private and public insurers. In addition we must establish a mechanism to effectively distribute Kyprolis to physician offices. We have limited prior experience in building or maintaining an access, reimbursement and distribution infrastructure, which is difficult and time consuming, and requires substantial financial and other resources. Factors that may hinder our efforts include inability to recruit, retain and manage adequate numbers of effective personnel, and an inability to establish or maintain relationships with government agencies, insurers and distributors. Our sales of Kyprolis are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. We rely on the reimbursement coverage by federal and state government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and will rely on equivalent programs in other countries, once we receive regulatory approval for those countries. We also rely on coverage and reimbursement from private pharmaceutical insurers in the United States. To the extent that we seek approvals to market Kyprolis in foreign territories, we 28 Table of Contents will need to work with the government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions that are the primary payers of healthcare costs in those regions. Governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and access to Kyprolis in order to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. We cannot predict the future availability or level of coverage and reimbursement for Kyprolis or our product candidates and a reduction in coverage or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. In addition, our estimates of discounts and reserves against our gross sales of Kyprolis, referred to as gross to net adjustments, will continue to be informed and evolve as we build a history of coverage and reimbursement for Kyprolis, which for some categories like Medicaid rebates and returns, may take up to a full year after launch. We expect that many of the patients in the United States who seek treatment with Kyprolis will be eligible for Medicare benefits. Other patients may be covered by private health plans. The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, and coverage and reimbursement for products and services under Medicare are determined pursuant to statute, regulations promulgated by CMS, and CMS's subregulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. It is difficult to predict exactly how CMS may apply those regulations and policy determinations to Kyprolis, and those regulations and interpretive determinations are subject to change. Moreover, the procedures and criteria by which CMS makes coverage and reimbursement determinations and the reimbursement amounts established by statute are subject to change, particularly because of budgetary pressures facing the Medicare program. Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of outpatient drugs that are furnished "incident to" a physician's services. Generally, "incident to" drugs are covered only if they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the type that is not usually self-administered by the patient and they are reasonable and necessary for a medically accepted diagnosis or treatment. To date Kyprolis is generally covered under Medicare Part B and the Medical benefit for private insurers. Medicare Part B generally pays for drugs provided in a hospital outpatient setting and in physicians' offices under a payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP, information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General may compare the ASP for a drug or biological to the widely available market price, or WAMP, and the Medicaid Average Manufacturer Price, or AMP, for that drug or biological, and if the ASP exceeds the WAMP or AMP by at least 5% and other conditions are met, CMS can reduce Medicare payment rates. We have very limited experience marketing a Medicare Part B drug, or reporting ASP information, as is required by CMS. If we fail to collect and report information correctly and on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, we may be subject to significant civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from federal health care programs. Physicians who administer Kyprolis to Medicare beneficiaries in their offices are reimbursed at wholesale acquisition cost (WAC) plus six percent until average sales price (ASP) data are available, at which point reimbursement changes to ASP plus six percent. Through 2012 Kyprolis was reimbursed at 95% of AWP in the hospital outpatient setting. Effective January 1, 2013, Kyprolis was assigned with a product specific C code and pass-through status and will generally be reimbursed by CMS at WAC plus six percent until there is sufficient sales data for CMS to calculate an ASP, at which time we expect payment to transition to ASP plus six percent. In future years, Congress also could enact legislation to change the reimbursement rate in physician offices or hospital outpatient departments. In addition, when Kyprolis no longer has pass-through status, CMS could implement regulations to change both the hospital payment rate and the cost threshold for determining whether a drug is separately reimbursed in hospital outpatient departments, and these changes could adversely affect payment for Kyprolis. Further, unless Congress enacts legislation to avert the pending "sequestration," aggregate Medicare payments for drugs and biologicals administered by physicians and hospital outpatient departments, including Kyprolis, will be reduced by up to 2%, effective April 1, 2013. This reduction in CMS reimbursement rates could reduce the number of physician offices and hospital outpatient departments that furnish injectable drugs such as Kyprolis, and therefore could have at least a temporary negative impact on Kyprolis net revenues. A condition of federal funds being made available to cover our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B is our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we must pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for each unit of our drug paid for by those programs. The rebate amount for a drug varies by quarter, and is based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively PPACA, is expected to impact the United States pharmaceutical industry substantially, including with regard to how health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: •an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, not including orphan drug sales; •an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for innovator and non-innovator, respectively; 29 Table of Contents •a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; •extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; •expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability; •expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service 340B pharmaceutical pricing program; •new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in PPACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any payment or "transfer of value" made or distributed to teaching hospitals, prescribers and other healthcare providers, and reporting any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations during the preceding calendar year, with data collection to be required starting August 1, 2013 and reporting to be required by March 31, 2014; •expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; •a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and •a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of PPACA, excepting certain provisions, noted above, that would have required states to expand their Medicaid programs or risk losing all of the state's Medicaid funding. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any further changes made to PPACA, whether in part or in its entirety. Moreover, state and federal legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at reforming the healthcare system in the United States continue to be proposed, the effect of which, if enacted, could adversely impact our product sales and results of operations. U.S. and foreign policymakers and payers continue to express significant interest in promoting reforms aimed at containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control. The use of formal economic metrics has been increasing across Europe, as well as in several emerging markets throughout the world, to determine whether or not a new product will be reimbursed and, increasingly, in setting the maximum price at which the product will be reimbursed. With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure such as international price referencing, therapeutic reference pricing (e.g., setting the reimbursement rate for a given class of agents at the lowest price within the class), increasing mandates or incentives for generic substitution, and government-mandated discounts and price cuts. In the United States, reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. While we will implement policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the United States government, state governments and private payers frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. Any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of our products and expose us to civil money penalties or other liability. The availability of federal funds under Medicaid and Medicare Part B to pay for Kyprolis and any other products that are approved for marketing also is conditioned on our participation in the Public Health Service 340B drug pricing program. The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. These covered entities include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries, as well as a variety of community health clinics and other recipients of health services grant funding. If, as described above, sequestration reduces the number of physicians and hospital outpatient departments that furnish injectable drugs, such as Kyprolis, the proportion of Kyprolis patients receiving treatments in 340B entities could increase. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional entity types: certain free standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Act. The 340B ceiling price for a drug is calculated using a statutory formula that is based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amount for the drug. To the extent PPACA, as discussed above, changes the statutory and regulatory definitions of AMP and the Medicaid rebate amount, these changes will also affect our 340B ceiling price for Kyprolis or any other of our products that are approved 30 Table of Contents for marketing. Any revisions to previously reported Medicaid pricing data also may require revisions to the 340B ceiling prices that were based on those data and could require the issuance of refunds. If Nexavar does not continue to be broadly adopted for the treatment of unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. If our ongoing and planned clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective for additional indications or we are unable to obtain necessary approvals for other uses, we will be unable to expand the commercial market for Nexavar and our business may be harmed or fail. The market size for Nexavar in treating unresectable liver cancer depends on several factors, including educating treating physicians on the appropriate use of Nexavar and the management of patients who are receiving Nexavar. Achieving these goals may be difficult as liver cancer patients typically have underlying liver disease and other comorbidities and can be treated by a variety of medical specialists. In addition, screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by region. Further, liver cancer is common in many regions in the developing world where the healthcare systems are limited and reimbursement for Nexavar is limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption. While we have established Nexavar as part of the treatment paradigm for liver cancer, we may not be able to successfully achieve its full market potential for this indication. In addition, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for this indication may be obtained and in some Asia Pacific countries where most of the current market is private pay, these approvals require prolonged negotiations with the governments, potentially including multiple government agencies. In addition, we may not receive or maintain pricing approvals at favorable levels or at all, which could harm our ability to broadly market Nexavar. Nexavar has not been approved in any indications other than unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer. We and Bayer are currently conducting a number of clinical trials of Nexavar; however, our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective in other indications, and Nexavar may not gain additional regulatory approval, which would limit the potential market for the product and harm our future prospects. If we are not able to obtain approval for label expansion or alternative delivery mechanisms, we will have incurred significant clinical trial costs without corresponding benefits, our future prospects may suffer and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Success in one or even several cancer types does not indicate that Nexavar would be approved or have successful clinical trials in other cancer types. Regulatory requirements change over time, including acceptable clinical endpoints. We may be unable to satisfy new requirements or expectations of regulatory authorities and hence, Nexavar may never be approved in additional indications. Even if our products receive regulatory approval, guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may affect the uptake, adoption and/or use of those products. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products and to Bayer's products. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/ science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the medical and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related or competing therapies. Such recommendations or changes to such recommendations or other changes or other guidelines advocating alternative therapies could result in decreased use of Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to further develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar and Stivarga. Developing, manufacturing and commercializing Nexavar and Stivarga depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we may be unable to continue development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense. As permitted under our amended collaboration agreement and regorafenib agreement with Bayer, we may develop Nexavar and Stivarga in certain indications at our own expense. Even if we were able to develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar or Stivarga on our own, this would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, would necessarily impose delays on development programs and could limit the indications we are able to pursue. These expenses and other obstacles could effectively prevent us from developing and commercializing Nexavar and Stivarga on our own, even in situations where we would otherwise be permitted to do so under the collaboration agreement. Disputes with Bayer may delay or prevent us from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing or increasing the sales of Nexavar, and could lead to additional disputes with Bayer, which could be time consuming and expensive. We are subject to a number of other risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: •unfavorable decisions by Bayer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of Nexavar and Stivarga; •possible disagreements as to development plans, clinical trials, regulatory marketing or sales; •our inability to co-promote Nexavar or Stivarga in any country outside the United States, which makes us solely dependent on Bayer to promote Nexavar and Stivarga in foreign countries; 31 Table of Contents •Bayer's right to terminate the collaboration agreement on limited notice in certain circumstances involving our insolvency or material breach of the agreement; •loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; •adverse regulatory or legal action against Bayer resulting from failure to meet healthcare industry compliance requirements in the promotion and sale of Nexavar and Stivarga, including federal and state reporting requirements; •changes in key management personnel at Bayer, including Bayer's representatives on the collaboration's executive team; and •disagreements with Bayer regarding interpretation or enforcement of the collaboration agreement and/or the regorafenib agreement. We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar outside of the U.S. and Stivarga globally and we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. Bayer may not have sufficient expertise to promote or obtain reimbursement for oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. In addition, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity. We are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer's commercial decisions related to Nexavar and Stivarga as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. Bayer's development of other products, including Stivarga, may provide Bayer incentives to develop and commercialize Nexavar that are different from our own. In preparation for approval and commercialization of Stivarga we increased the number of sales representatives who promote Nexavar and Stivarga in the U.S. This may result in disrupting many current relationships with physicians. The new representatives and current representatives may not have access to or will have a delay in access to the physicians. This could result in lower sales of Nexavar and Stivarga for the time period until access is established or lower sales permanently if access is not fully re-established. In addition, selling two products is more complex than selling a single product, and some representatives may be slow to or unable to make this transition, resulting in lower sales in their territory. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Bayer has the right, upon 60 days' notice, to cease co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer ceases co-funding Nexavar development, further development of Nexavar could be delayed and we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator. If we or Bayer cease funding development of Nexavar under the collaboration agreement, then the party which ceases funding will be entitled to receive a royalty, but not to share in profits. In addition, Bayer has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to nominate a member to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our stockholders may not be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and our ability to independently determine all corporate actions could be diminished. Moreover, we are highly dependent on Bayer for timely and accurate information regarding any revenues realized from sales of Nexavar and Stivarga and the costs incurred in developing and selling Nexavar, in order to accurately report our results of operations. If we do not receive timely and accurate information or incorrectly estimate activity levels associated with the co-promotion and development of Nexavar and Stivarga, we could be required to record adjustments in future periods and may be required to restate our results for prior periods. Such inaccuracies or restatements could cause a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or lead to claims against us, harming our operations and future prospects. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer will terminate when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or at the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. Our right to royalties on the sale of Stivarga will terminate with expiration of Stivarga patents. The worldwide patents and patent applications covering Nexavar and Stivarga are owned by Bayer and certain patents are licensed to us through our collaboration agreement and regorafenib agreement. We have limited control over the filing, strategy, or prosecution of the Nexavar and Stivarga patent applications and no control of enforcement or defense of the patents outside the United States. We may need additional funds, our future access to capital is uncertain, and unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. We may need additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming activities related to the development and commercialization of Nexavar and Kyprolis and our other product candidates, including manufacturing, clinical trials and regulatory approval. Also, we may need funds to develop our early stage product candidates, to acquire rights to additional product candidates, or acquire new or complementary businesses. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: •revenue from our product sales; 32 Table of Contents •global product development and commercialization activities; •the cost involved in enforcing patents against third parties and defending claims by third parties; •the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; •the cost of acquiring new or complementary businesses; •competing technological and market developments; and •future fee and milestone payments We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. If we change our development plans, acquire rights to or license additional products, or seek to acquire new or complementary businesses, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. In addition, we anticipate that our expenses related to Kyprolis will increase over the next several years. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we may need to raise additional capital and may be unable to do so. Our general business may be adversely affected by global economic difficulties, a volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the equity and credit markets do not sustain improvement or begin to deteriorate again, it may make any necessary future debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive, and may result in adverse changes to product reimbursement and pricing and sales levels, which would harm our operating results. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and future prospects and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is also a possibility that our stock price may decline, due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn, such that we would lose our status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, which allows us to more rapidly and more cost-effectively seek to raise funds in the public markets. Additionally, other challenges resulting from the current economic environment include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, global pricing pressures, increases in national unemployment impacting patients' ability to access drugs, increases in uninsured or underinsured patients affecting their ability to afford pharmaceutical products and increased U.S. free goods to patients. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. Our operating results could be adversely affected by product sales occurring outside the United States and fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies or unintended consequences from our currency contracts. A majority of Nexavar sales are generated outside of the United States, and a significant percentage of Nexavar commercial and development expenses are incurred outside of the United States. Under our collaboration agreement, when these sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars by Bayer in determining amounts payable to us or payable by us, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We also incur a significant percentage of research and development expenses for Kyprolis and our earlier-stage development products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We enter into transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying exchange rate in the contracts and actual exchange rate. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the Euro and the British Pound. As we expand our business geographically, we will be exposed to exchange rate fluctuation in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, Stivarga or Kyprolis, our business could be harmed. The FDA-approved package inserts for Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga includes several warnings relating to observed adverse reactions. For example, severe and sometimes fatal hepatotoxicity has been observed in clinical studies of Stivarga. These adverse reactions are highlighted as a boxed warning in the labeling for Stivarga, which could increase regulatory scrutiny for adequately addressing risk information in promotional messaging. With commercial use and additional clinical trials of these products, we and Bayer have updated and expect to continue to update adverse reactions listed in the package insert to reflect current information. If additional adverse reactions emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the relevant patient populations, the FDA or other regulatory agencies could modify or revoke marketing approval of any product or we may choose to withdraw one or more products from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to 33 Table of Contents obtain marketing approval in additional indications. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar, Kyprolis or Stivarga were to suffer harm as a result of their use of these products, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We expect to seek additional regulatory approvals of Kyprolis in the United States and other countries. We have observed and reported safety and adverse events in Kyprolis clinical trials, which may increase the risk that FDA, or other regulatory agencies, could reject future applications for marketing approval. Similarly, Bayer is seeking additional regulatory approval for Stivarga, and has reported safety and adverse events in Stivarga trials, which may increase the risk that regulatory agencies could reject additional marketing approval for Stivarga. Even if Bayer succeeds in obtaining multiple regulatory approvals for Stivarga, we expect that their package inserts, if approved, will include information related to safety and adverse events, which could limit the market potential or reimbursability of either or both products If previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed in Nexavar, Kyprolis, or Stivarga, we may be unable to proceed with further clinical trials, to seek or obtain regulatory approval in one or more indications, or to realize full commercial benefits of our products. In clinical trials, patients may be treated with Nexavar, Kyprolis, or Stivarga as a single agent or in combination with other therapies. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to our products, including adverse effects related to the products that are administered in combination with our products. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to adverse conclusions regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar, Kyprolis or Stivarga. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are in violation of federal and state regulations related to the promotion of drugs in the United States or elsewhere. If we have disagreements with Bayer regarding ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals for Nexavar, and the FDA refuses to recognize Onyx as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize Nexavar, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar. For Kyprolis, we are responsible for managing communications with regulatory agencies, including filing investigational new drug applications, filing new drug applications, submission of promotional materials and generally directing the regulatory processes. We have limited experience directing such activities and may not be successful with our planned development strategies, on the planned timelines, or at all. If we fail to conduct any required post-approval studies or if the studies fail to verify that any of our product candidates are safe and effective, our FDA approval could be revoked. If we or Bayer fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. To date, the FDA has approved Nexavar only for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. Physicians are not prohibited from prescribing Nexavar for the treatment of diseases other than advanced kidney cancer or unresectable liver cancer, however, we and Bayer are prohibited from promoting Nexavar for any non-approved indication, often called "off label" promotion. Likewise, to date, the FDA has approved Kyprolis only for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies, including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent, and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy; and Stivarga only for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, or mCRC, and for the treatment of patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST. Although physicians are not prohibited from prescribing Kyprolis or Stivarga for the treatment of diseases other than the FDA-approved indication, we are prohibited from promoting Kyprolis or Stivarga for any other indications. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting off label promotion and the promotion of products for which marketing authorization has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted an off label use may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. We engage in the support of medical education activities and engage investigators and potential investigators interested in our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse are and will be applicable to our business. For example, in the United States, there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services or reward past purchases or recommendations. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical companies to track and report payments, gifts and other benefits provided to physicians and other health care professionals and entities. Similarly, Section 6002 of PPACA requires pharmaceutical companies to report to the federal government certain payments and transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members in applicable manufacturers. Other state laws require pharmaceutical companies to adopt and or disclose specific compliance policies to regulate the company's interactions with 34 Table of Contents healthcare professionals. Some states, such as Massachusetts, Minnesota and Vermont, impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. Violations of some of these laws may result in substantial fines. These laws affect our promotional activities by limiting the kinds of interactions we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of our products. Both the disclosure laws and gift bans impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. These laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how a law will be applied in specific circumstances. If an employee were to offer an inappropriate gift, we could be subject to a claim under an applicable federal and state law. Similarly if we fail to comply with a reporting requirement, we could be subject to penalties under applicable federal or state laws. Numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who are expected to prescribe our products and from whom we obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. We could be subject to civil penalties for violations of the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA and could also be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business. International laws, such as the EU Data Privacy Directive (95/46/EC) and Swiss Data Privacy Act, regulate the processing of personal data within Europe and between European countries and the United States. Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with Safe Harbor mechanisms could jeopardize business transactions across borders and result in significant penalties. As we expand our development and commercialization activities outside of the United States, we will be subject to an increased risk of inadvertently conducting activities in a manner that violates the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. If that occurs, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. We are also subject to the UK Anti-Bribery Act, which prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both public and private sectors. In the course of establishing and expanding our commercial operations and seeking regulatory approvals outside of the United States, we will need to establish and expand business relationships with various third parties, such as independent contractors, distributors, vendors, advocacy groups and physicians, and we will interact more frequently with foreign officials, including regulatory authorities and physicians employed by state-run healthcare institutions who may be deemed to be foreign officials under the FCPA, UK Anti-Bribery Act or similar laws of other countries that may govern our activities. Any interactions with any such parties or individuals where compensation is provided that are found to be in violation of such laws could result in substantial fines and penalties and could materially harm our business. Furthermore, any finding of a violation under one country's laws may increase the likelihood that we will be prosecuted and be found to have violated another country's laws. If our business practices outside the United States are found to be in violation of the FCPA, UK Anti-Bribery Act or other similar law, we may be subject to significant civil and criminal penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and growth prospects. The market may not accept our marketed products. Our marketed products may not be adopted rapidly, or at all, by physicians. Factors that can affect the rate of adoption and that can increase the difficulty of forecasting sales include the following: •physician and patient unfamiliarity with new marketed products such as Kyprolis and Stivarga; •cautionary prescribing behavior due to concerns regarding the safety and risk-benefits; •cautionary prescribing behavior due to lack of reimbursement history for Kyprolis or Stivarga; •confusion and questions relating to the label; •difficulty in identifying appropriate patients for treatment; •the cost of the marketed product; •other aspects of physician education; •the size of the market for our marketed products, which may not be as large as forecasted; 35 Table of Contents •treatment guidelines issued by government and non-government agencies; •types of cancer for which the marketed product is approved; •timing of market entry relative to competitive products; •availability of alternative therapies; •price of our marketed product relative to alternative therapies, including generic versions of our products, or generic versions of innovative products that compete with our marketed products; •patients' reliance on patient assistance programs, under which we provide free drugs; •rates of returns and rebates; •uncertainty of launch trajectory for Kyprolis and Stivarga; •our ability to manufacture and deliver Kyprolis in commercially sufficient quantities; •extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; •side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our marketed products or similar products; •duration of time a patient remains on treatment; and •dose used, in accordance with the label. The extent to which any of these or other factors individually or in the aggregate may impact future sales of our marketed products is uncertain and difficult to predict. We may be subject to pharmaceutical pricing and third-party reimbursement pressures. Third-party payers and governments are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, especially in global markets, and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Nexavar, Kyprolis or Stivarga, or any other future product. Governments outside of the United States may increase their use of risk-sharing programs, which will only pay for a drug after it demonstrates efficacy in a given patient. In addition, governments may increasingly rely on Health Technology Assessments to determine payment policy for cancer drugs. Health Technology Assessments are used by governments to assess whether health services are safe and cost-effective. In addition, the market for our products may be limited by third-party payers who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If our products are not on the approved lists in one or more countries, our sales may suffer. Non-government organizations can influence the use of our products and reimbursement decisions for our products in the United States and elsewhere. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, a not-for-profit alliance of cancer centers, has issued guidelines for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. These guidelines may affect treating physicians' use of Nexavar. Nexavar's success in Europe and other regions, particularly in Asia Pacific, could also depend on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. For example, in Europe and in many other international markets, patient access is limited for medicines that are not reimbursed by the government. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by up to twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect sales and profitability of Nexavar. In addition, in Europe and in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. In the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, China leads in Nexavar sales, however, reimbursement typically requires multiple steps. Also, in December 2009, health authorities in China published a new National Reimbursement Drug List, or NRDL, which lists medicines that are expected to be sold at government controlled prices. There were no targeted oncology drugs, including Nexavar, on the NRDL, however, the Ministry of Human Resource and Social Security, the group responsible for developing the NDRL, could establish a mechanism and framework for reimbursement of high-value innovative products, such as targeted oncology drugs. Reimbursement policies are subject to change due to economic, political or competitive factors. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. In the European Union, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. The approach taken varies from member state to member state. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may be marketed only once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the role of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom, which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. In addition, 36 Table of Contents in some countries cross-border imports from low-priced markets (parallel imports) exert commercial pressure on pricing within a country. Forecasting sales of Kyprolis may be difficult and revenue recognition may be deferred. If our revenue projections are inaccurate or revenue is deferred and our business forecasting and planning decisions are not reflected in our actual results, our business may be harmed and our future prospects may be adversely affected. Our management must make forecasting decisions regarding future revenue in the course of business planning despite this uncertainty, and actual results of operations may deviate materially from projected results. This may lead to inefficiencies and increased difficulties in operational planning. If our revenues from Kyprolis sales are lower than we anticipate or revenue is deferred, we will incur costs in the short term that will result in losses that are unavoidable. A shortfall in our revenue would have a direct impact on our cash flow and on our business generally. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly results can adversely and significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Our financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results. The preparation of our financial statements require us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. Significant estimates made by us include assumptions used in the determination of revenue recognition and the calculation of reserves, the fair value of marketable securities, revenue from the Bayer collaboration agreement, multiple element arrangements, the effect of business combinations, fair value measurement of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, goodwill and other intangible assets, fair value of convertible senior notes, research and development expenses, stock-based compensation and the provision for income taxes. For example, our management exercised judgment in determining the appropriate revenue recognition policy for product sales of Kyprolis. Although we base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, our interpretation of existing accounting literature and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, if our interpretation or application of existing accounting literature is deemed to be materially incorrect, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The integration of acquired businesses may present significant challenges to us. In 2009 we acquired Proteolix, and in the future we may enter into other acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current business or enter into a new product area. Achieving the anticipated benefits of any future acquisition, depends upon the successful integration of the acquired business' operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The difficulties of integration include, among others: •consolidating research and development operations; •retaining key employees; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures, including integrating and managing information technology and other support systems and processes; •preserving relationships with third parties, such as regulatory agencies, clinical investigators, key opinion leaders, clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, licensors and suppliers; •appropriately identifying and managing the liabilities of the combined company; •utilizing potential tax assets of the acquired business; and •managing risks associated with acquired facilities, including environmental risks and compliance with laws regulating laboratories. We cannot assure stockholders that we will receive any benefits of any future merger or acquisition, or that any of the difficulties described above will not adversely affect us. In addition, integration efforts would place a significant burden on our management and internal resources, which could result in delays in clinical trial and product development programs and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. Any of the following risks associated with future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our 37 Table of Contents business, develop new products, or sell Nexavar, Stivarga or Kyprolis, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results for many reasons, including: •difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; •difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; •difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •disruption of or delays in ongoing research, clinical trials and development efforts; •diversion of capital and other resources; •assumption of liabilities and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; and •difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. If we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash and investment balances would be reduced which could negatively impact our liquidity, the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. However, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders could be diluted. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. If we lose our key employees or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of key employees may have an adverse impact on our business unless or until we hire a suitably qualified replacement. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. In order to succeed in our research and development efforts, we will need to continue to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. We may need to further expand our sales, market access, managerial, operational, administrative and other functions in order to continue to commercialize Nexavar, Kyprolis and Stivarga, manage and fund our operations and continue our development activities. To support this growth, we have hired and intend to continue hiring additional employees. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: •Increase our activities related to commercialization, and effectively hire, train and manage a sales force, who will have limited or no prior experience with our company or our products, and establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support our commercial organization; and •continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations into Europe and, if Kyprolis and other products are approved in that region, we expect to import, market, sell and distribute our products in European countries. We expect to expand our presence in Europe. Our clinical and commercial supply chain activities could occur outside the United States. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: •differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; •compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; •foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; 38 Table of Contents •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; •workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; •production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and •business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks described elsewhere in these risk factors associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at educational institutions or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We incurred significant indebtedness through the sale of our 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of the notes and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred senior indebtedness in August 2009 when we sold $230 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, or the 2016 Notes. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; •requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and •placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot assure stockholders that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the 2016 Notes, or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the notes and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness. Any default under the notes or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The conditional conversion features of the 2016 Notes were triggered on October 1, 2012 and again on January 1, 2013. The holders of the 2016 Notes are entitled to convert the 2016 Notes through March 31, 2013, at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2016 Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2016 Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2016 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sales of Nexavar, Stivarga and Kyprolis, and the use of Nexavar, Kyprolis, Stivarga or other products and product candidates in clinical trials expose us to product liability claims. In the United States, FDA approval of a drug may not offer protection from liability claims under state law (i.e., federal preemption defense), the tort duties for which may vary state to state. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar, Kyprolis, Stivarga or future products. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product 39 Table of Contents liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in significant losses. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for a product; •injury to our reputation; •distraction of management; •withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and •loss of revenues. We or Bayer may not be able to protect or enforce our or their intellectual property rights and we may not be able to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents, effectively maintained as trade secrets, or otherwise protected as confidential information or know-how. We depend in part on our ability to: •obtain patents; •license technology rights from others; •protect trade secrets; •operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and •prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, particularly generic drug manufacturers. Patents and patent applications covering Nexavar and Stivarga are owned by Bayer. Those Nexavar patents that arose out of our collaboration agreement with Bayer are licensed to us, including two United States patents covering Nexavar and pharmaceutical compositions of Nexavar. Both patents will expire January 12, 2020. These two patents are listed in the FDA's Approved Drug Product List (Orange Book). Based on publicly available information, Bayer also has patents in several European countries covering Nexavar, which will expire in 2020. Bayer has other patents and patent applications pending worldwide that cover Nexavar alone or in combination with other drugs for treating cancer. Certain of these patents may be subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to and the term of which cannot presently be calculated, in part because Bayer does not share with us information related to its Nexavar patent portfolio. Patents and patent applications covering Stivarga are owned by Bayer. Bayer has an issued patent in Europe that claims Stivarga and expires in 2024, and applications pending in the United States and other countries of the world that, if issued, will also have a patent term of 2024. The 2024 expiration date is without considering any patent term extension that the patents may be entitled to. We cannot be certain that Bayer's issued patents and future patents if they issue will provide adequate protection for Nexavar or Stivarga or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. Similarly, we cannot be certain that the patents and patent applications owned by us, acquired in the Proteolix acquisition, or licensed to us by any licensor, will provide adequate protection for Kyprolis or any other product, or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. The patents related to Kyprolis and oprozomib will begin to expire in 2025 and 2027, respectively. Third parties may claim to have rights in the assets that we acquired with Proteolix, including Kyprolis, or to have intellectual property rights that will be infringed by our commercialization of our assets, including those that we acquired with Proteolix. If third parties were to succeed in such claims, our business and company could be harmed. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Third party patents may cover the materials, methods of treatment or dosage related to our product, or compounds to be used in combination with our products; those third parties may make allegations of infringement. We cannot provide assurances that our products or activities, or those of our licensors or licensees, will not infringe patents or other intellectual property owned by third parties. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar or complementary to ours, including compounds to be used in combination with our products. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may be unable to acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties' patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product 40 Table of Contents candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference or similar proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or its foreign counterparts to establish priority of invention. These activities are uncertain, making any outcome difficult to predict and costly and may be a substantial distraction for our management team. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants, including clinical investigators, to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these third parties to publish or otherwise publicly disclose information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations; however, these contracts may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act have not yet become effective. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act, in particular the first-to-file provision, and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Limited foreign intellectual property protection and compulsory licensing could limit our revenue opportunities. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. In 2009, we became aware that a third-party had filed an opposition proceeding with the Chinese patent office to invalidate the patent that covers Nexavar. Unlike other countries, China has a heightened requirement for patentability, and specifically requires a detailed description of medical uses of a claimed drug, such as Nexavar. The third party filed an appeal to the Beijing No. 1 Court to which Bayer responded and the Court found in Bayer's favor. The appeal period for this decision has recently expired, and thus the Nexavar Chinese patent has been upheld. Generic drug manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents, requiring Bayer and us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Generic drug manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of Nexavar. For example, Bayer has a patent in India that covers Nexavar. Cipla Limited, an Indian generic drug manufacturer, applied to the Drug Controller General of India, or DCGI, for market approval for Nexavar, which Bayer sought to block based on its patent. Bayer sued the DCGI and Cipla Limited in the Delhi High Court requesting an injunction to bar the DCGI from granting Cipla Limited market authorization. The Court ruled against Bayer, stating that in India, unlike the U.S., there is no link between regulatory approval of a drug and its patent status. Bayer unsuccessfully appealed. Consequently, Bayer has appealed to the Indian Supreme Court, and has filed a patent infringement suit against Cipla that is currently pending before the Delhi high court, Cipla, however, is now selling a generic version of Nexavar in India. Also, recently, India's controller general of patents, designs and trademarks has granted a compulsory license to the Indian generic drug manufacturer, Natco, to make a generic version of Nexavar, and Natco has commenced production of a generic version of Nexavar. Bayer has appealed this ruling, and has also sued Natco for patent infringement. The compulsory license granted to Natco does not give Natco the right to sell Nexavar outside of India. Two other Indian companies, MDL ChemPharm and BDR Pharmaceuticals Inc., have filed for a compulsory license to sell generic Nexavar. Bayer has sued both these parties for patent infringement. In addition to India, certain countries in Europe and developing countries, including China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, Bayer, the owner of the Nexavar patent estate, may have limited remedies if the Nexavar patents are infringed or if Bayer is compelled to grant a license for Nexavar to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents that cover Nexavar. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. If we use hazardous or potentially hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could significantly deplete or even exhaust our resources. We do not have any 41 Table of Contents insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and manufacturing efforts, which could harm our business. We are subject to various laws and regulations governing laboratory practices and the experimental use of animals. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, and the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other regulatory statutes, and may in the future be subject to other federal, state or local regulations. OSHA or the EPA may promulgate regulations that may affect our research and development programs. Provisions in the indenture for the 2016 Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the 2016 Notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of 2016 Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its notes in connection with such fundamental change. A fundamental change is defined in the indenture governing the 2016 Notes and includes certain transactions resulting in a change of control of our common stock, the approval of a plan for our liquidation or dissolution or the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ or other national securities exchanges. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2016 Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Our business may be affected by other legal proceedings. We have been in the past, and may become in the future, involved in legal proceedings. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable and outcomes can result in significant fines, penalties and/or injunctive relief that could affect how we operate our business. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming for our management and requires resources which could otherwise be focused on our business activities. In addition, legal fees and costs incurred in connection with such activities could be significant. Settlements and decisions adverse to our interests in legal actions could result in the payment of substantial amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. There can be no assurance that our management or diligence efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise have received a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For examples, these provisions: •give authority to our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any stockholder vote; •provide for a board of directors consisting of three classes, each of which serves for a different three-year term and do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors; •provide that stockholders may only act at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; •allow special meetings of the stockholders to be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or 10% or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; •require stockholders to give advance notice prior to submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings or to nominate persons for election as directors; and •restrict certain business combinations between us and any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. 42 Table of Contents We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer's employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control. The change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. In the future, the failure of one or more of our customers could have a significant impact on our business. Following the commercial launch of Kyprolis, our sales and trade accounts receivable in the United States are primarily with a limited number of drug wholesalers and specialty distributors. As a result, we are highly dependent on these customers. This concentration of credit risk could increase the risk of financial loss, should one or more of these companies fail. Although we will monitor the financial performance and creditworthiness of our customers and will monitor economic conditions along with associated impacts on the financial markets and its business, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent credit losses that could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 