ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the factors that the company’s management believes could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently sees as immaterial, may also harm the company’s business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below, or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The company depends on government contracts for substantially all of its sales and the loss of government contracts or a delay or decline in funding of existing or future government contracts could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and ability to fund growth. The company derived approximately 92.8% of its consolidated net sales from the U.S. Government and its agencies during the year ended December 31, 2006. The company expects that sales to the U.S. Government will continue to be the primary source of its revenue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of the company’s relationship with the U.S. Government would significantly reduce the company’s results of operations. The DoD budget has increased for each fiscal year from 1997 to 2007. On February 5, 2007, the President sent to Congress his defense budget for fiscal 2008. The budget requests $481.4 billion in discretionary authority for the DoD base budget, an 11.3% increase over the projected enacted level for fiscal 2007, for growth of 8.6%; and $141.7 billion to continue the fight in the Global War on Terrorism in fiscal 2008. There can be no assurance that Congress will approve the defense budget for fiscal 2008, as submitted. In addition, the fiscal 2008 base budget and future budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Government’s budget deficits, a change in spending priorities and the costs of sustaining the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could cause the DoD budget to remain unchanged or to decline. A significant decline in U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a material decrease to the company’s sales, earnings and cash flow. The company’s business is also highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and the U.S. Government budgets. A shift in Government defense spending to other programs in which the company is not involved could have a material adverse affect on the company’s results of operations. The company acts as prime contractor or major subcontractor for many different U.S. Government programs. Over its lifetime, a program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Although multiple year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program in which the company provides products or services would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, and would have a negative impact on the company’s results of operations. In addition, the termination of a program or failure to commit funds to a prospective program already started could increase the company’s overall costs of doing business. U.S. Government contracts typically contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government agencies rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including providing the government agency with the ability to unilaterally: · terminate or reduce the value of and modify some of the terms and conditions of existing contracts; · suspend or permanently prohibit the company from doing business with the U.S. Government or with any specific governmental agency; 14 · control and potentially prohibit the export of the company’s products; and · claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by the company. If a U.S. Government agency terminates a contract with the company for convenience, the company generally may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If an agency terminates a contract with the company for default, the company is denied any recovery and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the agency in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. The company may receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the agency’s satisfaction, could give the agency the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring the company’s services under those contracts. In the event that any of the company’s contracts were to be terminated or adversely modified, there may be significant adverse effects on its revenues, operating costs and income that would not be recoverable. In addition, the company’s U.S. Government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacturing of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. As a result, the company may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with the company’s U.S. Government contracts. As a U.S. Government contractor, the company is subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. The company must comply with and is affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern the company’s right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of the company’s contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. These laws and regulations affect how the company does business with its customers, and in some instances impose added costs on its business. These costs might increase in the future, reducing margins, which could have a negative effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The company’s business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and information management systems. These audits may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, the company could incur a material charge to earnings and a reduction in cash position. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, the company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In 15 addition, as a U.S. Government contractor, the company is subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistle-blower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities as compared with purely commercial companies, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations. The company could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against it. The company’s revenues may be adversely affected if the company fails to win competitively awarded contracts or to receive renewal or follow-on contracts. The company obtains many of its U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including, without limitation: · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may have more financial and marketing resources and more experience in bidding on and performing major contracts than the company has; · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract for which the company is competing; · the need to compete to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to the company on a sole-source basis; · the expense and delay that may arise if the company’s competitors protest or challenge new contract awards; · the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties, cost overruns or both; · the substantial cost and managerial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to the company; · the need to develop, introduce and implement new and enhanced solutions to the company’s customers’ needs; · the need to locate and contract with teaming partners and subcontractors; and · the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to perform any fixed-price contract that the company is awarded. There are no assurances that the company will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to receive renewal or follow-on contracts. Renewal and follow-on contracts are important because the company’s contracts are for fixed terms. These terms vary from shorter than one year to over five years, particularly for contracts with options. The typical term of the company’s contracts with the U.S. Government is between one and three years. The loss of revenues from the company’s possible failure to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain renewal or follow-on contracts may be significant because the company’s U.S. Government contracts account for a substantial portion of its sales. A decline in the funding for the company’s UAS programs or the company’s inability to win future UAS contracts could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position and results of operations. Net sales of the company’s Shadow 200 TUAS, including logistical support for fielded Shadow TUAS for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 represented 65.1%, 63.0% and 57.3% of total sales, respectively. While the company believes that there will be growth in UAS markets, a decline in the 16 funding for the company’s UAS programs, or the inability of the company to win new UAS contracts, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position and results of operations. Other risks associated with U.S. Government high technology contracts may expose the company’s business to adverse consequences. The company is subject to risks associated with uncertain cost factors related to: · scarce technological skills and components; · the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; · the substantial time and effort required for design and development; · design complexity; · rapid obsolescence; and · the potential need for design improvement. Military transformation and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. The DoD is committed to a transformation of the U.S. military that will achieve and maintain advantages through changes in operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies that significantly improve warfighting capabilities. This defense transformation is evidenced by a trend toward smaller, more capable, interoperable and technologically advanced forces. To achieve these capabilities, a change in acquisition is underway toward early deployment of initial program capabilities followed by subsequent incremental improvements, cooperative international development programs and a demonstrated willingness to explore new forms of development, acquisition and support. Along with these trends, new system procurements are being evaluated for the degree to which they support the concept of jointness and interoperability among the services. The company cannot predict whether potential changes in priorities due to defense transformation will afford new or additional opportunities for the company’s businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. The company’s backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation, which could negatively impact its revenues and results of operations. Backlog represents orders placed for which funds have been appropriated or purchase orders received. The company’s total funded backlog as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $662,244. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce backlog and consequently, future revenues. The company’s failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could negatively impact its revenues and results of operations. The company’s earnings and profit margins may vary based on the mix of its contracts and programs. The company typically experiences lower profit margins under cost reimbursable and fixed-price development contracts than under fixed-price production contracts. In general, if the volume of products and services the company provides under cost reimbursable and fixed price development contracts increases in proportion to the volume of products and services the company provides under fixed price production contracts, the company’s operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, the company’s earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the costs the company incurs in contract performance, its achievement of other contract performance objectives and the stage of 17 performance at which the company’s right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. The company may be liable for system and service failures. The company designs, produces, and supports complex aerospace and defense systems. The company is often tasked to develop or integrate new technologies that may be untested or unproven. The company has experienced, and may in the future experience, some system and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with its work. If the company’s systems, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet customers’ expectations, the company may: · lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; · be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; · receive negative publicity, which could damage the company’s reputation and adversely affect the company’s ability to attract or retain customers; or · suffer claims for substantial damages, which could have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and future prospects. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or judgments used to estimate total revenues and cost at completion have resulted, and may result in the future, in cost overruns or have otherwise adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, results of operations, including decreased operating margins. During the year ended December 31, 2006, fixed price contract sales comprised 50.6% of sales from continuing operations. Under firm fixed price contracts, the company performs services under a contract at a stipulated price. If the company fails to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during its performance of fixed price contracts, the company can incur losses on those contracts because any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by the company. Under time and materials contracts, the company is paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, the company is reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, the company may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. The company’s ability to manage costs on each of these contract types may materially and adversely affect its financial condition. Cost overruns also may adversely affect the company’s ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Due to the size and nature of many of the company’s contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for the company to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that the results could be different and the differences could be material if the company used different 18 assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. For additional information regarding the company’s accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see Critical Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. Failure to perform by one of the company’s subcontractors, partners or suppliers could materially and adversely affect the company’s performance and its ability to obtain future business. Many of the company’s contracts involve subcontracts or partnerships with other companies upon which the company relies to perform a portion of the services the company must provide to its customers. There is a risk that the company may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, the company’s failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract or the company’s hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more of the company’s subcontractors to satisfactorily provide, on a timely basis, the agreed upon services may materially and adversely impact the company’s ability to perform its obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could expose the company to liability and have a material adverse effect on the company’s ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, in connection with certain contracts, the company commits to certain performance guarantees. The company’s ability to perform under these guarantees may in part be dependent on the performance of other parties, including partners and subcontractors. If the company is unable to meet these performance obligations, the performance guarantees could have a material adverse effect on the company’s product margins and its results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, several suppliers are the company’s sole source of certain components. If a supplier should cease to deliver such components, added cost and manufacturing delays could result, which may affect the company’s ability to meet customer needs and may have an adverse impact on the company’s profitability. Business disruptions could adversely affect the company’s future sales, financial condition, reputation or stock price or increase costs and expenses. The company’s business, and that of its key suppliers and customers, may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. Such disruptions could affect the company’s internal operations or services provided to customers, adversely impacting the company’s sales, financial condition, reputation or stock price or increase its costs and expenses. The company derives revenues from international sales and is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. The company derived approximately 4.2% of its revenues from international sales during the year ended December 31, 2006 and, as a result, is subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: · changes in regulatory requirements that may adversely affect the company’s ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States; · domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; · devaluations and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · delays in placing orders; 19 · the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; · the uncertainty of adequate and available transportation; · the uncertainty of the ability of foreign customers to finance purchases; · uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; · the imposition of tariffs, embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; · the difficulty of managing and operating an enterprise spread over various countries; · compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; and · economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect the company’s operations in the future. The company may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad and Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Licenses for the export of many of the company’s products are required from U. S. government agencies in accordance with various statutory authorities, including the Export Administration Act of 1979, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976. The company can give no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining these necessary licenses in order to conduct business abroad. In the case of certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days prior to authorizing these sales depending on the size and location of the sale. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. The company operates in highly competitive markets and its future success will depend on its ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance and to compete successfully. The defense industry, in which the company primarily participates, is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. If the company does not continue to improve existing product and service lines and develop new products, services and technologies, its business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, competitors could introduce new products and services with greater capabilities, which could also have a material and adverse effect on the company’s business. Accordingly, the company’s future performance depends on a number of factors, including its ability to: · identify emerging technological trends in target markets; · develop and maintain competitive products and services; · enhance the company’s products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate them from those of competitors; and · develop, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly at cost-effective prices. The company believes that, in order to remain competitive in the future, it will need to continue to develop new products and services, which will require the investment of significant financial resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert the company’s attention and resources from other projects and the company cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of 20 new technology. Due to the design complexity of the company’s products, the company may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and services. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for the company’s products and services will develop or continue to expand as currently anticipated. The failure of the company’s technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce revenues and harm the company’s business. Furthermore, the company cannot be sure that its competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of the company’s products and services. In addition, the company competes primarily for government contracts against many companies that are larger, devote greater resources to research and development and generally have greater financial and other resources. Consequently, these competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of economies of scale and develop new technologies. In order to remain competitive, the company must keep its capabilities technically advanced and compete on price and value added to its customers. The company’s ability to compete depends on the effectiveness of its research and development programs, its readiness with respect to facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which the company competes and its past performance and demonstrated capabilities. The company’s ability to compete also may be adversely affected by limits on its capital resources and its ability to invest in maintaining and expanding market share. If the company is unable to compete effectively, its business and prospects will be adversely affected. The company is subject to litigation and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The company’s financial condition and performance may be affected by pending litigation and other loss contingencies, and by unanticipated liabilities. The company is subject to lawsuits, including asbestos related claims and environmental matters, several of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the time, attention and resources of management. These litigation matters and contingencies are described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The company is subject to significant environmental laws and regulations. The company’s business is subject to a wide range of general and industry specific environmental, health and safety, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in the company’s business. The company may incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The company’s failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions. As an owner and operator of real estate, the company may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from the company’s properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether the company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances on its property and may not be limited to the value of the property. The company may also be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability, related to facilities or sites to which it has sent hazardous waste materials. In addition, situations may give rise to material environmental 21 liabilities that have not yet been discovered. New environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws, may be enacted that require the company to make significant expenditures. The company depends on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel and its failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm the company’s business. Due to the specialized nature of the company’s businesses, future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of its key engineering personnel and executive officers. The company’s prospects depend upon its ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel. Competition for personnel is intense and the company may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Failure to successfully compete for these personnel could seriously harm the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The company’s level of returns on employee benefit plans assets and interest rates could affect its earnings and cash flows in future periods. Net income or loss and cash flows may be significantly positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded and required contributions for the company’s employee benefit plans. Judgments, assumptions and assessments of uncertainties are required in developing the projected obligations for pension and other post-retirement employee benefits. Changes in assumptions related to the company’s employee benefit plans can significantly affect its results of operations. The company has complemented and may continue to complement its growth strategy through acquisitions, which subject the company to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The company has complemented and may continue to complement its growth strategy through acquisitions that broaden its product and service offerings, deepen its capabilities and allow entry into new attractive domestic and international markets. Acquisitions may require significant capital resources and divert management’s attention from its existing business and may not have the benefits anticipated. Acquisitions also entail an inherent risk, which could subject the company to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct predating the acquisition of a business that were not known to the company at the time of the acquisition. The company may also incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than had been initially anticipated. In addition, acquisitions may create unanticipated tax and accounting problems. A key element of the company’s acquisition strategy, depending on the type of acquisition, may also include retaining management and key personnel of the acquired business to operate the acquired business for the company. The company’s inability to retain these individuals could materially impair the value of an acquired business. The company’s failure to successfully accomplish future acquisitions or to manage and integrate completed or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurances that the company: · will identify suitable acquisition candidates; · can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms; · can successfully compete for acquisition candidates against larger companies with significantly greater resources; · can successfully integrate any acquired business into its operations or successfully manage the operations of any acquired business; or · will be able to retain an acquired company’s significant client relationships, goodwill and key personnel or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. 22 Future acquisitions may require that the company incur debt or issue dilutive equity. The company’s acquisition strategy may require the company to incur debt, under its existing credit facility or otherwise, or sell equity, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. The company may incur material goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges related to mergers and acquisitions. The company has recognized goodwill of $51,314 and other indefinite-lived intangible assets of $27,784 in connection with mergers and acquisitions as of December 31, 2006. In accordance with accounting rules, the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment unless circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed sooner to determine if there has been any impairment to value. The review for impairment is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected cash flows or change in market conditions, among other things, may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. The company’s mergers and acquisitions during 2006 did not involve the acquisition of significant tangible assets and, as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price in each case will likely be allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. The company is currently valuing the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired in connection with mergers and acquisitions during 2006. The company will continue to test for impairment on an annual basis, coinciding with its fiscal year-end, or on an interim basis if circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying value. Hence, the company will test for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets related to mergers and acquisitions during 2006 in the second half of 2007, unless circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed sooner. The company may incur material goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges related to its mergers and acquisitions. The company increased its leverage as a result of the sale of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. In connection with the sale of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the company incurred $120,000 of indebtedness. The degree to which the company is leveraged could adversely affect its ability to obtain further financing or working capital, consummate acquisitions or otherwise pursue strategies, and could make the company more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. The company’s ability to meet its debt service obligations will be dependent upon its future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting the company’s operations, many of which are beyond the company’s control. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes carry certain conversion, repurchase and payment rights which may result in the issuance of shares of the company’s Common Stock and a dilution of existing shareholders. Under certain circumstances, the holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may convert their notes into shares of the company’s Common Stock (subject to the company’s right to deliver cash in lieu of shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof) or require the company to repurchase their notes. In the event of any such repurchase, the company may elect to make the payment, including any interest payments (including any make-whole interest payments) in shares of the company’s Common Stock. Under certain circumstances, the company may require the holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to convert their notes into shares of the company’s Common Stock. If the company elects to convert the notes, the company also may elect to pay interest due on the notes in shares of the company’s Common Stock. The issuance of Common Stock under any of these circumstances could result in a substantial dilution of existing shareholders. 23 The company may violate financial covenants under its credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s liquidity and financial condition. The terms of the credit facility may restrict the company’s financial and operational flexibility, including its ability to invest in new business opportunities. The company has a four-year secured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of six banks. The credit facility, which expires in July 2009, provides the company with borrowing capacity of $100,000, including a $5,000 swing line and a $100,000 letter of credit sub-facility. The company uses the credit facility to fund acquisitions, finance capital expenditures, provide working capital, fund letters of credit and for other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $2,416 of letters of credit were outstanding under the credit facility. The terms of the credit facility require the company to comply with certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants, including, among others, the maintenance of certain leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum consolidated tangible net worth ratios, limits on the incurrence of debt and preferred equity, limits on the incurrence of liens, a limit on the making of dividends or distributions, limits on sales of assets and a limit on capital expenditures. If the company’s future financial performance or operations results in a violation of the covenants under the credit facility, the company could be required to repay outstanding borrowings and would not be permitted to borrow under the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s liquidity and financial condition. The terms of the credit facility may restrict the company’s financial and operational flexibility, including its ability to invest in new business opportunities. The company’s charter and bylaws, Delaware law and the indenture for the company’s 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes contain provisions that could discourage a takeover even if beneficial to shareholders. The company’s charter and bylaws, in conjunction with Delaware law, contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the company even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. For example, the company’s bylaws allow the Board of Directors to expand its size and fill any vacancies without shareholder approval. Furthermore, the company’s board has the authority to issue preferred stock and to designate the voting rights, dividend rate and privileges of the preferred stock, all of which may be greater than the rights of common shareholders. Additionally, upon a change of control of the company, the holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may have the right to require the company or its successor to repurchase the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes at a make-whole premium designed to compensate note holders for the lost option time value of their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase in cash. This could make it more costly for a third party to obtain control of the company even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 