Risk Factors Relating to Our Business In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report: We incurred losses from continuing operations in 2005 and our liquidity remains tight. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred losses from continuing operations of $22,350. We also continued to require cash above amounts currently being provided from operations to meet our working capital requirements. Additionally, as a result of operating activities, we were not in compliance at certain times during 2005 with debt covenant requirements under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. We have obtained waivers of non-compliance with all such financial covenants and cured all of such covenant violations. Our ability to service our debt and note obligations as they come due, including maintaining compliance with the covenants and provisions under our current and future debt instruments, is and will continue to be dependent upon our future financial and operating performance. This performance, in turn, is subject to various factors, including certain factors beyond our control, such as changes in conditions affecting the airline industry and changes in the overall economy. Additionally, our customer base has been adversely impacted in the past by various factors, such as the state of the general economy, fluctuations in the price of jet fuel, declines in passenger airline travel, the war on 8 terrorism, the war in Iraq, the outbreak of the SARS virus in Asia and competitive price reductions in airfare prices. These and other factors may adversely affect our customers in the future. Cash flow from operations is used to service our debt and note obligations, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes. Even if we are able to meet our debt service and other obligations when due, we may not be able to comply with the covenants and other provisions under our debt obligations. A failure to comply, unless waived by the lenders, would be an event of default and would permit our lenders to accelerate the maturity of these debt obligations. It would also permit them to terminate their commitments to extend credit under the financing agreements. Our senior credit facilities also limit our ability to continue to borrow additional funds in the event of a material adverse change in our business, as defined. If we were unable to repay the debt to the lenders, or otherwise obtain a waiver, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the financing obligations, and exercise all other rights available to them. While we expect to be in a position to continue to meet our obligations in future periods, there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. Risks associated with the aviation services industry. The condition of the airline industry has a substantial effect on our business, since our customers consist of passenger airlines and freight carriers, aircraft leasing companies, maintenance and repair facilities that service airlines, and original equipment manufacturers. Generally, when economic factors adversely affect the airline industry, they tend to reduce the overall demand for maintenance and repair services, causing downward pressure on pricing and increasing the credit risks associated with doing business with airlines. Additionally, the price of jet fuel affects the maintenance and repair markets, since older aircraft, which consume more fuel and which currently account for a significant portion of our maintenance and repair services business, become less viable as the price of fuel increases. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks against the United States of America and the resulting increase in airline insurance costs, additional government mandated passenger taxes and fees, and increased airport security costs, have had a severe impact on the aviation industry. These factors, in conjunction with an overall slowdown in the U.S. economy, a reduction in passenger levels from fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, and the overall instability in the Middle East (including the war on terrorism and the war in Iraq) have resulted in operating losses for U.S. airline carriers in excess of $10.3 billion for 2001, $8.6 billion for 2002, $3.6 billion for 2003, $5.0 billion for 2004, and an estimated $4.8 billion for 2005. In addition to these adverse factors, fiscal 2003 was further impacted by the outbreak of the SARS virus in Asia and fiscal 2004 was impacted by significantly increased fuel costs due to the high price of oil. As a result of these factors, many commercial passenger airlines and air cargo carriers reported significant reductions in their capacity and have taken out of service upwards of 20% of their aircraft. This reduction in capacity has lessened the aircraft maintenance required by such airlines (and thereby the amount of maintenance being outsourced to companies like TIMCO). These factors have also caused several carriers to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The two most notable for us has been the filing for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 by United Air Lines on December 9, 2002 (United has been our largest customer during the last three fiscal years) and by Delta Airlines on September 14, 2005 (our fourth largest customer during 2005 and traditionally one of our top 10 largest customers year-over-year). As of the date of this report, United Air Lines has emerged from protection under the Bankruptcy Code, while Delta Airlines has not. In addition to those that have already filed, other carriers have publicly discussed the potential of seeking protection from creditors through a voluntary bankruptcy filing. As related to us, current exposures to carriers that are at risk of filing for protection are being continuously evaluated and monitored, though we have in the past, and may in the future, experience losses relating to these credit exposures. Additionally, the Company is positioning itself for potential favorable implications of these Chapter 11 filings and resurgence of the airlines as it is anticipated that additional maintenance outsourcing opportunities could result as these airlines look for cost reduction solutions. We believe that all of the above factors could continue to have a negative impact on our business in the foreseeable future. These events, which have adversely affected our business, have also impacted our competition, with several of our competitors exiting the MRO business. The loss or a significant downturn in the operations of one or two of our major customers could materially affect our business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 77% and 78% of our total revenues for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of these ten customers, three represented approximately 33%, 13%, and 12% of our total revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2005. No other customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for 2005. Our fourth largest customer during 2005, Delta Airlines, is currently in reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and our largest customer, United Airlines, recently emerged from a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. While the relative significance of customers varies from period to period, the loss of, or significant curtailments in purchases of our services by, one or more of our significant customers at any time has in the past and may in the future 9 adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. We have incurred losses in the past and we may incur losses in the future. If we incur losses in the future, our ability to obtain sufficient working capital for our operations and our ability to service our indebtedness may be impaired. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $22,350, $667, and $4,304, respectively, during the 2005, 2004, and 2003 fiscal years. If we incur losses in the future, we will likely limit our ability to obtain sufficient working capital for our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, our ability to service our indebtedness may be harmed because we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay principal or interest when due. A portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by a customer or group of customers has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are leveraged. We have significant debt. This could have important consequences to us, including: • our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes, particularly where our current lenders have a lien on all of our assets; and • the requirement that we obtain the consent of our lenders if we wish to borrow additional amounts. We depend on financing transactions. We are primarily dependent on cash flow from operations and borrowings to meet our working capital requirements. • During 2003, we relied on borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and proceeds from our related party term loan to fund our working capital requirements. • During 2004, we continued to rely on borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, proceeds from our refinanced senior secured term loan and proceeds from the sale of our office and warehouse facility located in Miramar, FL. • During 2005, we continued to rely on borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our rights offering, and proceeds from the establishment of the Monroe Capital Term Loans. We continue to require cash above amounts currently being provided from operations to meet the working capital requirements of our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us in the future, if required, for these purposes. Our lenders impose significant restrictions on us. Our senior credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may significantly limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, repay indebtedness prior to its stated maturity, sell assets or engage in mergers or acquisitions. In addition, our failure to comply with these restrictions could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to significant government regulation. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States and by similar agencies in other countries. We must be certified by the FAA in order to repair aircraft and aircraft components. We cannot assure you that new and more stringent government regulations will not be adopted in the future or that any such new regulations, if enacted, would not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Our business is highly competitive. The airline industry and the markets for our products and services are extremely competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft part manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies and other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services. Certain of our competitors are currently experiencing financial difficulties similar to or worse than our own and several of our competitors have ceased operations or substantially curtailed their operations during the last few years. Many of these competitors have responded to their financial difficulties by reducing prices on their services to increase or retain market share. Any material deterioration in our financial condition is likely to affect our ability to compete with price-cutting by our competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is susceptible to liability claims. Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death which may result if we were negligent in repairing an airplane. We cannot assure you that claims will not arise in the future or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverages in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our executive officers and our employees. Our continued success depends significantly upon the services of our executive officers and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all of our operations. While we have employment agreements with all of our executive officers and certain of our key employees, most of our employees are employed on an at-will basis. The loss of one or more of our executive officers and of a significant number of our other employees without capable replacements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our airframe heavy maintenance business (which constitutes approximately 80% of our current business) requires qualified mechanics and other personnel to provide services requested by our customers, and our ability to meet customer requirements depends on our ability to attract and retain the mechanics and other qualified personnel necessary to provide services at the physical locations of our operations. In that regard, we utilize outside contractors to provide personnel when we cannot otherwise hire required personnel. While we have been able to obtain sufficient mechanics and other required personnel to date, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain all personnel required in the future. This may constrain our ability to grow our operations beyond their current levels. Control is vested in our principal stockholder. As of February 6, 2006, LJH owns approximately 72% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, LJH is able to control the vote on all matters submitted to the vote of our stockholders and therefore, able to direct our management and policies, including, but not limited to, the election of our entire board of directors. In addition, under such circumstances, we will not, without LJH’s approval, be able to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including transactions in which the holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Our existing stockholders have experienced substantial dilution as a result of our completed tender offers and they will experience additional dilution upon maturity of the remaining untendered New Senior Notes and Junior Notes and upon the full exercise of the LJH Warrant. On March 15, 2005, and October 12, 2005, we closed on two separate tender offers to the holders of our 8% Senior Subordinated Convertible PIK Notes due 2006 (“New Senior Notes”) and our 8% Junior Subordinated Convertible PIK Notes due 2007 (“Junior Notes”). As a result of these tender offers, we converted $117,533 in aggregate principal amounts of these notes into an aggregate of 6,880 shares of our authorized but unissued common stock. We also issued an aggregate of 1,032 shares of our authorized but unissued common stock to the holders of these notes that tendered in these offerings as an inducement for their early conversion. Finally, we issued 3,288 shares of our authorized but unissued common stock to LJH based upon its partial exercise of the LJH Warrant. Further, upon the maturity of our remaining New Senior Notes and Junior Notes at the end of 2006 and the beginning of 2007, respectively, we will issue an additional 11 110 shares of our authorized but unissued common stock and LJH will have the right to exercise the remainder of the LJH Warrant and receive an additional 47 shares of our authorized but unissued common stock. Finally, we have outstanding common stock purchase warrants to purchase 254 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $206.40 per share and under our 2003 Stock Incentive Plan we may grant options or warrants to purchase up to 2,500 shares of our common stock to our officers, directors and employees. See Notes 3, 4, 5, and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for particulars regarding all of these matters. If our common stock is deemed a “penny stock,” its liquidity will be adversely affected. The price of our common stock fell below $1.00 per share in September 2001 and remained below $1.00 per share until the completion of our rights offering and one-new-share-for-forty-old-shares reverse split in November 2005. If the market price for our common stock falls back below $1.00 per share, our common stock will once again be deemed to be a penny stock. So long as our common stock is considered a penny stock, it will be subject to rules that impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers who sell our securities. For example, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Also, a disclosure schedule must be prepared before any transaction involving a penny stock, and disclosure is required about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Monthly statements are also required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers may not effect transactions in penny stocks. This could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. Our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. As a result of the thin trading market for our common stock, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Of the 21,441 shares of our common stock currently outstanding, approximately 72% are currently held by LJH and approximately 17% are currently held by affiliates of Owl Creek. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Possible or actual sale of any of these shares, particularly by LJH and/or affiliates of Owl Creek, may decrease the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be depressed by future sales. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you as to when, and how many of, the shares of our common stock will be sold and the effect these sales may have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock in connection with possible future acquisitions or other transactions. Although these securities may be subject to regulatory or contractual resale restrictions, as these restrictions lapse or if these shares are registered for sale to the public, they may be sold to the public. In the event we issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which subsequently become available for unrestricted resale, there could be a material adverse effect on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Adjustments to common stock purchase warrant exercise prices and exercise dates. We have outstanding common stock purchase warrants to purchase approximately 254 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $206.40 per share until February 28, 2007. While we presently have no intent to take any of these actions, we may, in our sole discretion, and in accordance with the terms of the warrant agreements with the warrant agents, reduce the exercise price of the common stock purchase warrants and/or extend the time within which the warrants may be exercised, depending on such things as the current market conditions, the price of the common stock and our need for additional capital. Further, in the event that we issue certain securities or make certain distributions to the holders of our common stock, the exercise price of the warrants may be reduced. Any such price reductions (assuming exercise of the warrants) will provide less money for us, higher incremental expense and possibly adversely affect the market price of our securities. 12 Impact of warrant exercise on market. In the event of the exercise of a substantial number of warrants within a reasonably short period of time after the right to exercise commences, the resulting increase in the amount of our common stock in the trading market could substantially affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to significant anti-takeover provisions. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the preferences, rights and limitations of any of these series without stockholder approval. Our ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals, or make it difficult for a third party to gain control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 13 