Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Nexavar® (sorafenib) tablets is our only approved product. If Nexavar fails and we are unable to develop and commercialize alternative product candidates our business would fail. Nexavar is our only approved product. Although we recently acquired rights to develop and commercialize ONX 0801 and options to license ONX 0803 and ONX 0805 in the United States, Canada and Europe, these compounds are in very early stages of development and we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize these or other product candidates. If Nexavar ceases to be commercially successful and we are unable to develop and commercialize any other products, our business would fail. There are several competing therapies approved and in development for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer. If Nexavar is unable to successfully compete against existing and future therapies in advanced kidney cancer, our business would be harmed. There are several competing therapies approved for the treatment of kidney cancer, including Sutent, a multi-kinase inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Pfizer; Torisel, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Wyeth; and Avastin, an angiogenesis inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the European Union and marketed by Genentech and Roche globally. Nexavar’s market share in advanced kidney cancer has decreased following the introduction of these products into the market. A demonstrated survival benefit is an important element in determining standard of care. While we did not demonstrate a statistically significant overall survival benefit for patients treated with Nexavar in our Phase 3 kidney cancer trial, we believe the outcome was impacted by the cross over of patients from placebo to Nexavar during the conduct of our pivotal clinical trial. Competitors with statistically significant overall survival data could be preferred in the marketplace, which could impair our ability to successfully market Nexavar. Furthermore, the use of any particular therapy may limit the use of a competing therapy with a similar mechanism of action. The FDA 14 Table of Contents approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be used as an initial, or first-line, therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, but some other approvals do not. For example, the European Union approval indicates Nexavar only for advanced kidney cancer patients that have failed prior therapy or whose physicians deem alternate therapies inappropriate. We expect competition to increase as additional products are approved to treat advanced kidney cancer. Products in development for advanced kidney cancer include Novartis’s everolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, and GlaxoSmithKline’s pazopanib, a multi-kinase inhibitor, among others. Everolimus is currently pending FDA review. The successful introduction of other new therapies to treat advanced kidney cancer could significantly reduce the potential market for Nexavar in this indication. There are several existing approaches and several therapies in development for the treatment of liver cancer. If Nexavar is unable to successfully compete against existing and future therapies in liver cancer, our business would be harmed. There are many existing approaches used in the treatment of liver cancer including alcohol injection, radiofrequency ablation, chemoembolization, cryoablation and radiation therapy. While Nexavar is the first systemic therapy to demonstrate a survival benefit for liver cancer, several other therapies are in development, including Pfizer’s Sutent, a multi-kinase inhibitor. If Nexavar is unable to compete successfully with existing approaches or if new therapies are developed for liver cancer, our business would be harmed. Although Nexavar has been approved in the United States, the European Union and other territories for the treatment of patients with liver cancer, adoption may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including the geographic distribution of the patient population, the current treatment paradigm for liver cancer patients, the underlying liver disease present in most liver cancer patients and limited reimbursement. If Nexavar is not broadly adopted for the treatment of liver cancer, our business would be harmed. Nexavar has been approved in the United States, the European Union and many other countries as the first systemic treatment for liver cancer. The rate of adoption and the ultimate market size will be dependent on several factors including educating treating physicians on the appropriate use of Nexavar and the management of patients who are receiving Nexavar. This may be difficult as liver cancer patients typically have underlying liver disease and other comorbidities and can be treated by a variety of medical specialists. In addition, screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by region. Further, liver cancer is common in many regions in the developing world where the healthcare systems are limited and reimbursement for Nexavar is limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption. If we are unable to change the treatment paradigms for this disease, we may be unable to successfully achieve the market potential of Nexavar in this indication, which could harm our business. While we and Bayer have received marketing approval for Nexavar in the United States, the European Union and other territories to treat liver cancer, some regulatory authorities have not completed their review of the submissions and any review may not result in marketing approval by these other authorities in this indication. In addition, although Nexavar is approved for the treatment of patients with liver cancer in the European Union and elsewhere, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for this indication may be obtained. We may not receive or maintain pricing approvals at favorable levels or at all, which could harm our ability to broadly market Nexavar. If our ongoing and planned clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective or we are unable to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to expand the commercial market for Nexavar and our business may fail. In collaboration with Bayer, we are conducting multiple clinical trials of Nexavar. We are currently conducting a number of clinical trials of Nexavar alone or in combination with other anticancer agents in kidney, liver, non-small cell lung, breast, melanoma, and other cancers including a number of Phase 3 clinical trials. Phase 3 trials are designed to more rigorously test the efficacy of a product candidate and are normally randomized and double-blinded. Phase 3 trials are typically monitored by independent data monitoring committees, or DMC, which periodically review data as a trial progresses. A DMC may recommend that a trial be stopped before completion for a number of reasons including safety concerns, patient benefit or futility. Our clinical trials may fail 15 Table of Contents to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective, and Nexavar may not gain additional regulatory approval, which would limit the potential market for the product causing our business to fail. Nexavar has not been approved in cancer types other than advanced kidney and liver cancers. Success in one or even several cancer types does not indicate that Nexavar would be approved or have successful clinical trials in other cancer types. For example, Bayer and Onyx have conducted Phase 3 trials in melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer that were not successful. In addition, in the non-small cell lung cancer Phase 3 trial, higher mortality was observed in the subset of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung treated with Nexavar and carboplatin and paclitaxel than in the subset of patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone. Based on this observation, further enrollment of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung has been suspended from other NSCLC trials sponsored by us. Other cancer types with a histology similar to squamous cell carcinoma of the lung may yield a similar adverse treatment outcome. If so, patients having this histology may be excluded from ongoing and future clinical trials, which could potentially delay clinical trial enrollment and would reduce the number of patients that could potentially receive Nexavar. Many companies have failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of pharmaceutical product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials notwithstanding favorable results in Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials. We are conducting clinical trials of Nexavar in a variety of cancer types, stages of disease and in combination with a variety of therapies and therapeutic agents. If previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed, we may not proceed with further clinical trials of Nexavar in that cancer type, stage of disease or combination. In our clinical trials, we may treat patients with Nexavar as a single agent or in combination with other therapies, who have failed conventional treatments and who are in advanced stages of cancer. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to Nexavar. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to an erroneous conclusion regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to further develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Bayer’s ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing Nexavar depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense. This would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, may limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing Nexavar. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: • adverse decisions by Bayer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of Nexavar; • possible disagreements as to development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • the right of Bayer to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice and for reasons outside our control; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by Bayer following the development or acquisition by it of competing products; • adverse regulatory or legal action against Bayer resulting from failure to meet healthcare industry compliance requirements in the promotion, sale, or federal and state reporting of Nexavar; • changes in key management personnel at Bayer that are members of the collaboration’s executive team; and • possible disagreements with Bayer regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights. 16 Table of Contents Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Bayer, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing Nexavar, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer terminates when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or upon the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. Bayer holds the global patent applications related to Nexavar. The patents and patent applications covering Nexavar are owned by Bayer, but licensed to us through our collaboration agreement with Bayer. Bayer has United States patents that cover Nexavar and pharmaceutical compositions of Nexavar, which will expire in 2020 and 2022, respectively. Bayer also has a European patent that covers Nexavar which will expire in 2020. Bayer has other patents/patent applications that are pending worldwide that cover Nexavar alone or in combination with other drugs for treating cancer. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market Nexavar to compete with other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many other companies are actively seeking to develop products that have disease targets similar to those we are pursuing. Some of these competitive product candidates are in clinical trials and others are approved. Competitors that target the same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates at various stages of clinical development include Pfizer, Genentech, Inc., Wyeth, Novartis International AG, Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and several others. A number of companies have agents such as small molecules or antibodies targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor, or VEGF; VEGF receptors; Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF; EGF receptors; and other enzymes. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing product candidates before we do. We will compete with companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. Further, we face numerous competitors working on product candidates to treat each of the diseases for which we are seeking to develop therapeutic products. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. We may also face competition from other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease and other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may succeed with technologies or products that are more effective than ours. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets and as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. We have made significant expenditures toward the development of Nexavar and the establishment of a commercialization infrastructure. If 17 Table of Contents Nexavar cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, we may be unable to realize sufficient revenue from Nexavar to offset our expenditures toward its development and commercialization, and our business will suffer. ONX 0801 may not be developed successfully, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth and our stock price. ONX 0801 is in the pre-clinical stage of development. Successful development of this compound is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Compounds that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for a variety of reasons including: • preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • the necessary regulatory approvals may not be received, or may be delayed due to factors such as slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or preparation of the IND, discussions with regulatory authorities, requests from regulatory authorities for additional pre-clinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues; • difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical; • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; and • the contractual rights of our collaborators or others may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. If this compound is not developed successfully, our prospects for future revenue growth and our stock price would be harmed. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Due to a highly competitive environment in kidney cancer and launches throughout the world, as well as the treatment paradigm in liver cancer, Nexavar sales will be difficult to predict from period to period. Our operating expenses are highly dependent on expenses incurred by Bayer and are largely independent of Nexavar sales in any particular period. In addition, we expect to incur significant operating expenses associated with the development activities with ONX 0801. If we exercise our option right related to ONX 0803 and ONX 0805, we will be required to pay significant license fees and we also expect to incur significant operating expenses for development of ONX 0803 and ONX 0805. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of patient demand for Nexavar, the timing and level of investments in sales and marketing efforts to support the sales of Nexavar, the timing and level of investments in the research and development of Nexavar, the ability of Bayer’s distribution network to process and ship Nexavar on a timely basis, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and expenditures we may incur to acquire or develop additional products. In addition, as a result of our adoption of SFAS 123(R), we must measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. Any such variance from one period to the next could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results. 18 Table of Contents It is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. The market may not accept our products and pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. Nexavar or future product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and/or the medical community or the market may not be as large as forecasted. One factor that may affect market acceptance of Nexavar or future products we may develop is the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for patients from third-party healthcare payors, such as government and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, especially in global markets, and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Nexavar or future products. In addition, the market for our products may be limited by third-party payors who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If our products are not on the approved lists, our sales may suffer. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Act in the United States, including Medicare Part D, or changes in private third-party payors’ policies towards reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our product costs and increase the amounts that patients have to pay themselves. Non-government organizations can influence the use of Nexavar and reimbursement decisions for Nexavar in the United States and elsewhere. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, a not-for-profit alliance of cancer centers, has issued guidelines for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. These guidelines may affect treating physicians’ use of Nexavar in treatment-naïve advanced kidney and liver cancer patients. Nexavar’s success in Europe and other regions will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. For example, in Europe and in many other international markets, most patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. For example, in Europe and in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Further reimbursement policies are subject to change due to economic, political or competitive factors. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products, including the following: • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • treatment guidelines issued by government and non-government agencies; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target population; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If Nexavar or any future product candidates that we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, we may not realize sufficient revenues from product sales, which may cause our stock price to decline. 19 Table of Contents Our clinical trials could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all. Although for planning purposes we project the commencement, continuation and completion of ongoing clinical trials, the actual timing of these events may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including actions by Bayer, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria and shortages of available drug supply. We may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar as projected or at all. We and Bayer are launching a broad, multinational Phase 2 program in advanced breast and other cancers. We may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully manage the execution and completion of these planned clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar for the target indications. In addition, we rely on Bayer, academic institutions, cooperative oncology organizations and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor the majority of clinical trials involving Nexavar. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in our planned clinical trials would prevent us from commercializing Nexavar in indications other than kidney cancer and liver cancer, and thus seriously harm our business. If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, approval for Nexavar could be revoked, sales of Nexavar could decline, and we may be unable to develop Nexavar as a treatment for other types of cancer. The FDA-approved package insert for Nexavar for the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer includes several warnings relating to observed adverse reactions. These include, but are not limited to, cardiac ischemia and/or infarction; incidence of bleeding; hypertension which may occur early in the therapy; hand-foot skin reaction and rash; and some instances of gastrointestinal perforations. Other treatment-emergent adverse reactions observed in patients taking Nexavar include, but are not limited to, diarrhea, fatigue, abdominal pain, weight loss, anorexia, alopecia, nausea and vomiting. With continued and potentially expanded commercial use of Nexavar and additional clinical trials of Nexavar, we and Bayer anticipate we will routinely update adverse reactions listed in the package insert to reflect current information. For example, subsequent to the initial FDA approval, we and Bayer updated the package insert to include additional information on new adverse reactions reported by physicians using Nexavar. If additional adverse reactions emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the Nexavar patient population, the FDA or other international regulatory agencies could modify or revoke approval of Nexavar or we may choose to withdraw it from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain approval of Nexavar in additional indications and foreign regulatory agencies may decline to approve Nexavar for use in any indication. Any of these outcomes would have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar were to suffer harm as a result of their use of Nexavar, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products, compounds or product candidates, we will not be able to market or further develop them. Drug candidates under development and approved for marketing are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign regulation, including the FDA’s requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. We have received regulatory approval for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney and liver cancer in the United States, in the European Union and a number of foreign markets, and we are developing Nexavar for several additional indications. Any compounds or product candidates that we may develop, including ONX 0801, ONX 0803 and ONX 0805, cannot be marketed in the U.S. until they have been approved by the FDA, and then they can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. For Nexavar, we rely on Bayer to manage communications with regulatory agencies, including filing new drug applications, submission of promotional materials and generally directing the regulatory processes for Nexavar. We also rely on Bayer to complete the necessary government reporting obligations such as price calculation reporting and clinical study disclosures to federal and state regulatory agencies. We and Bayer may not obtain necessary additional approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If we fail to obtain required governmental 20 Table of Contents approvals, we will experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar in particular indications or countries. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may approve only limited label information for the product. The label information describes the indications and methods of use for which the product is authorized, and if overly restrictive, may limit our and Bayer’s ability to successfully market any approved product. If we have disagreements as to ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals, and the FDA refuses to recognize us as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize Nexavar, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing products. For any compounds or product candidates that we may further develop, we cannot be sure that we will be able to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in obtaining approvals could prevent us from marketing any potential products and would adversely affect our business. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Additional or more rigorous governmental regulations may be promulgated that could delay regulatory approval of our products or product candidates. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect the successful commercialization of our products or product candidates. After Nexavar and any other products we may develop are marketed, the products and their manufacturers are subject to continual review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with Nexavar or any other products we may develop and manufacturing and production by Bayer or other third parties may result in restrictions on our products or product candidates, including withdrawal from the market. In addition, problems or failures with the products of others, before or after regulatory approval, including our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval. Increased industry trends in U.S. regulatory scrutiny of promotional activity by the FDA, Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General and Offices of State Attorney Generals resulting from healthcare fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, False Claims Act and federal anti-kickback statute, have led to significant penalties for those pharmaceutical companies alleged of non-compliance. If we or Bayer fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including strict regulation of marketing and sales activities, we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. We are dependent on the efforts of Bayer to market and promote Nexavar. Under our collaboration and co-promotion agreements with Bayer, we and Bayer are co-promoting Nexavar in the United States. We do not have the right to co-promote Nexavar in any country outside the United States, and we are dependent solely on Bayer to promote Nexavar in foreign countries where Nexavar is approved. In all foreign countries, except Japan, Bayer will first receive a portion of the product revenues to repay Bayer for its foreign commercialization infrastructure, before determining our share of profits and losses. In Japan, we receive a single-digit royalty on any sales of Nexavar. We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar in foreign countries where Nexavar is approved. Bayer may not have sufficient experience to promote oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. If Bayer fails to adequately promote Nexavar in foreign countries, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. If this were to happen, sales of Nexavar in any foreign countries where Nexavar is approved may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business. Similarly, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of potential regulatory approvals. Since we share in the profits and losses arising from sales of Nexavar outside of the United States, rather than receiving a royalty (except in Japan), we are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer’s commercial decisions related to Nexavar as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on the efforts of and funding by Bayer for the development of Nexavar. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Further, if we or Bayer cease funding development of Nexavar under the collaboration agreement, then that party will be entitled to receive a royalty, but not to share in profits. Bayer could, upon 60 days notice, elect at any time to terminate its co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer terminates its co-funding of Nexavar development, we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could cause our business to fail. We do not have the manufacturing expertise or capabilities for any current and future products and are dependent on others to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could result in lost sales and the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval. Under our collaboration agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar for clinical trials and to support our commercial requirements. However, should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so for us. Additionally, under our agreement with BTG we are responsible for all product development and commercialization activities of ONX 0801. Under our agreement with S*BIO, if we exercise our options and if S*BIO fails to supply us inventory through manufacturing, or other specified events occur, we have co-exclusive rights (with S*BIO) to make and have made ONX 0803 and ONX 0805 for use and sale in the United States, Canada and Europe. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar, ONX 0801 and, if required, ONX 0803 and ONX 0805 or any future product candidates on our own and would require substantial funds to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties to manufacture our product candidates and products. These parties may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortage of qualified personnel. These third parties may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required by us to successfully market our products. These third parties may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. Failure by these third parties could impair our ability to meet the market demand for Nexavar, and could delay our ongoing clinical trials and our applications for regulatory approval. If these third parties do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses to pay for the manufacture of products or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. If Bayer’s business strategy changes, it may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. Bayer may change its business strategy. Decisions by Bayer to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the oncology field, or to add competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentive to promote Nexavar. A change in Bayer’s business strategy may adversely affect activities under its collaboration agreement with us, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. We have a history of losses, and we may continue to incur losses. Although we achieved profitability for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $1.9 million of net income, we have incurred net losses for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 of $34.2 million and $92.7 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $470.7 million. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. We may continue to incur operating losses as we expand our development and commercial activities for our products, compounds and product candidates. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant expenditures towards the development and commercialization of Nexavar. We may never realize sufficient product sales to offset these expenditures. In addition, we will require significant funds for the research and development activities for ONX 0801. Upon the attainment of specified milestones, we are required to make milestone payments to BTG, which would also require significant funds. Exercising our option right under our agreement with S*BIO will also cause us to incur additional operating 22 Table of Contents expenses that would require significant funds. Our ability to achieve and maintain consistent profitability depends upon success by us and Bayer in marketing Nexavar in approved indications and the successful development and regulatory approvals of Nexavar in additional indications. If we lose our key employees or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of key employees may have an adverse impact on our business unless or until we hire a suitably qualified replacement. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. Following our licensing of ONX 0801, we are now conducting our own research and development of product candidates other than Nexavar, and we will need to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. If we cannot hire these individuals in a timely fashion, we will be unable to engage in new product candidate discovery activities. We may need additional funds, and our future access to capital is uncertain. We may need additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming activities related to the development and commercialization of Nexavar, ONX 0801 and, if we exercise our option right, ONX 0803 and ONX 0805, including manufacturing, clinical trials and regulatory approval. Also, we may need funds to acquire rights to additional product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • revenue from our product sales; • global product development and commercialization activities; • the cost involved in enforcing patent claims against third parties and defending claims by third parties; • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; • competing technological and market developments; • repayment of our of milestone-based advances to Bayer, and • future fee and milestone payments to BTG and S*BIO. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. Beginning in 2008, the public equity and debt markets, historically our primary source of capital, have become difficult or impossible for many companies, including those in our industry, to access. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We believe that our existing capital resources and interest thereon will be sufficient to fund our current development plans beyond 2010. However, if we change our development plans, acquire rights to or license additional products, or if Nexavar is not accepted in the marketplace, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. In addition, we anticipate that our expenses related to the development of ONX 0801 and our share of expenses under our collaboration with Bayer will increase over the next several years as we begin activities to develop ONX 0801 and continue our share of funding for the Nexavar clinical development program and expansion of commercial activities for Nexavar throughout the world. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we may need to raise additional capital to begin developing ONX 0801 beyond the pre-clinical stage and to continue the co-funding of the Nexavar program through and beyond 2010, and may be unable to do so. If the specialty pharmacies and distributors that we and Bayer rely upon to sell Nexavar fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of 23 Table of Contents specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Nexavar or complaints about Nexavar; • not effectively sell or support Nexavar; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support Nexavar; • not devote the resources necessary to sell Nexavar in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and • cease operations. Any such failure may result in decreased Nexavar sales and profits, which would harm our business. We or Bayer may not be able to protect our intellectual property, which gives us the power to exclude third parties from using Nexavar, or we may not be able to operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, we depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • license technology rights from others; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, particularly generic drug manufacturers in certain developing countries such as India. In the case of Nexavar, the global patent applications related to this product candidate are held by Bayer, and are licensed to us in conjunction with our collaboration agreement with Bayer. Bayer has United States patents that cover Nexavar and pharmaceutical compositions of Nexavar, which will expire in 2020 and 2022, respectively. Based on a review of the public patent databases, Bayer also has a European patent that covers Nexavar, which will expire in 2020. Bayer has other patents/patent applications pending worldwide that cover Nexavar alone or in combination with other drugs for treating cancer. Certain of these patents may be subject to possible patent-term extensions, either in the U.S. or abroad, the entitlement to and the term of which cannot presently be calculated, in part because Bayer does not share with us information related to its Nexavar patent portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, we owned or had licensed rights to 60 United States patents and 24 United States patent applications and, generally, the foreign counterparts of these filings. Most of these patents or patent applications cover protein targets used to identify product candidates during the research phase of our collaborative agreements with Warner-Lambert Company, now Pfizer, or Bayer, or aspects of our now discontinued virus program. Additionally, we have corresponding patents or patent applications pending or granted in certain foreign jurisdictions. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. 24 Table of Contents We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar to ours. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may not acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. These activities, especially patent litigation, are costly. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals, entities or consultants to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. The nature of the limitations depends on various factors, including the type of research being conducted, the ownership of the data and information and the nature of the individual, entity or consultant. In most cases, these individuals, entities or consultants are, at the least, precluded from publicly disclosing our confidential information and are only allowed to disclose other data or information generated during the course of the research after we have been afforded an opportunity to consider whether patent and/or other proprietary protection should be sought. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. Limited foreign intellectual property protection and compulsory licensing could limit our revenue opportunities. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Some companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe and developing countries, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, Bayer, the owner of the Nexavar patent estate, may have limited remedies if the Nexavar patents are infringed or if Bayer is compelled to grant a license of Nexavar to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents that cover Nexavar. If compulsory licenses were extended to include Nexavar, this could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which may make it difficult to stop infringement. Many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. These factors could also negatively affect our revenue opportunities in those countries. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of drugs or are otherwise found in violation of federal and state regulations in the United States or elsewhere. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may prescribe Nexavar for the treatment of cancers other than advanced kidney cancer or liver cancer, although neither we nor Bayer are permitted to promote Nexavar for the treatment of any indication other than advanced kidney cancer or liver cancer. The FDA and other regulatory agencies have not approved the use of Nexavar for any other indications. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies may not promote drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, prior to approval of Nexavar for use in any indications other than advanced kidney cancer or liver cancer, we may not promote Nexavar for these indications. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. 25 Table of Contents Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. We engage in the support of medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sale of Nexavar and its and other products’ use in clinical trials exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar. We believe that we have obtained reasonably adequate product liability insurance coverage that includes the commercial sale of Nexavar and our clinical trials. However, the cost of insurance coverage is rising. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in significant losses. If we do not receive timely and accurate financial information from Bayer regarding the development and sale of Nexavar, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations. Due to our collaboration with Bayer, we are highly dependent on Bayer for timely and accurate information regarding any revenues realized from sales of Nexavar and the costs incurred in developing and selling it, in order to accurately report our results of operations. If we do not receive timely and accurate information or incorrectly estimate activity levels associated with the co-promotion and development of Nexavar at a given point in time, we could be required to record adjustments in future periods and may be required to restate our results for prior periods. Such inaccuracies or restatements could cause a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or lead to claims against us, resulting in a decrease in the trading price of shares of our common stock. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Bayer may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides that if we are acquired by another entity by reason of merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and Bayer does not consent to the transaction, then for 60 days following the transaction, Bayer may elect to terminate our co-development and co-promotion rights under the collaboration agreement. If Bayer were to exercise this right, Bayer would gain exclusive development and marketing rights to the product candidates developed under the collaboration agreement, including Nexavar. If this happens, we, or our successor, would receive a royalty based on any sales of Nexavar and other collaboration products, rather than a share of any profits, which could substantially reduce the economic value derived from the sales of Nexavar to us or our successor. These provisions of our collaboration agreement with Bayer may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring us. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. In the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2008, our stock price ranged from a high of $59.50 and a low of $10.44. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on our stock price, including: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • interim or final results of, or speculation about, clinical trials of Nexavar; 26 Table of Contents • development progress of our early stage compounds; • decisions by regulatory agencies, or changes in regulatory requirements; • ability to accrue patients into clinical trials; • developments in our relationship with Bayer; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products; • government regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights or litigation brought against us; • sales by us of our common stock or debt securities; • foreign currency fluctuations, which would affect our share of collaboration profits or losses; and • general market conditions. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. We believe we are well positioned with significant capital resources to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, a prolonged or profound economic downturn may result in adverse changes to product reimbursement, pricing or sales levels, which would harm our operating results. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by the Company. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is a possibility that our stock price may decline, due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn, such that we would lose our status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, which allows us to more rapidly and more cheaply raise funds in the public markets. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. Our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Bayer, a collaborative party, has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to have its nominee elected to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and collaborator may be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and determine all corporate actions. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, and if auctions continue to fail for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. If the issuer of an auction rate security that we hold is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment charge to earnings. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities. The underlying assets of these securities are student loans substantially backed by the federal government. Due to adverse developments in the credit 27 Table of Contents markets, beginning in February 2008, these securities have experienced failures in the auction process. When an auction fails for amounts we have invested, the security becomes illiquid. In the event of an auction failure, we are not able to access these funds until a future auction on these securities is successful. We have reclassified these securities from current to non-current marketable securities, and if the issuer is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the marketable securities through an impairment charge to earnings. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have often brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. In December 2006, following our announcement that a Phase 3 trial administering Nexavar or placebo tablets in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with advanced melanoma did not meet its primary endpoint, our stock price declined significantly. Similarly, following our announcement in February 2008 that one of our Phase 3 trials for non-small cell lung cancer had been stopped because an independent DMC analysis concluded that it did not meet its primary endpoint of improved overall survival, our stock price declined significantly. We may in the future be the target of securities class action litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected by product sales occurring outside the United States and fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies. A majority of Nexavar sales are generated outside of the United States, and a significant percentage of Nexavar commercial and development expenses are incurred outside of the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities as foreign assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our net sales, cost of goods sold, and operating margins. The primary foreign currency in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure is the European Union euro. As we expand, we could be exposed to exchange rate fluctuation in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge any foreign currencies. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. 28 Table of Contents As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control of us and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: • our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms; • the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; • all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or 10% or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; and • no cumulative voting. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even at stock prices higher than the then current stock price. We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer’s employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control. The change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 