Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our securities could decline. As a result, you should consider all of the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, before making an investment decision regarding our securities. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We depend on a small number of products and customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one of these drug products or customers could reduce our revenues significantly. The majority of our revenues are or will be derived from the commercialization of two (2) products, Bloxiverz® and Vazculep™. Additionally, we depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our revenues from sales of these two drug products. Four customers, AmeriSource Bergen, Cardinal, McKesson and Morris & Dickson accounted for approximately 99% of revenues from sales of these products in 2014. These customers comprise a significant portion of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant share of the market. We expect that continuing consolidation will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on pharmaceutical companies. The loss of any one of these products or the termination of our relationship with any of these customers or our failure to broaden our customer base could cause our revenues to decrease significantly and result in losses from our operations. Further, we may be unable to negotiate favorable business terms with customers that represent a significant portion of our revenues. If so, our revenues and gross profits, if any, may not grow as expected or may not grow at a rate sufficient to make us profitable. We may depend on partnership arrangements or strategic alliances for the commercialization of some of our products in development, in particular those incorporating our drug delivery platforms. The commercialization of some of our drug delivery platforms-based products in development, such as LiquiTime®-based Over-The-Counter (“OTC”) products (e.g. ibuprofen, guaifenesin) and Medusa™ exenatide, will require resources and expertise that we currently do not have. Therefore, we will need to seek partners, and/or enter into strategic alliances, licenses or other arrangements to successfully commercialize these products. Such arrangements will subject us to a number of risks, including the following: ·we may not be able to control several factors in the commercialization of some of our products, including the amount, timing and quality of resources that our partners may devote to these products; ·our partners may experience financial, regulatory or operational difficulties, which may impair their ability to commercialize these drug products; ·as a requirement of any partnership arrangement, we may be required to relinquish important rights with respect to these drug products, such as marketing and distribution rights; ·legal disputes or disagreements, including the ownership of intellectual property, may occur with one or more of our partners and may lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration; ·significant changes in a partner’s business strategy may adversely affect a partner’s willingness or ability to satisfactorily complete its commercialization or other obligations under any such arrangement; and, ·a partner could terminate the partnership arrangement, which could negatively impact the continued commercialization of these drug products. Our products may not gain market acceptance. Even if we and/or our partners obtain the necessary regulatory approval to market products, such products, technologies and product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and medical communities. The degree of market acceptance of any product, technology or product candidate will depend on a number of factors, including: 3 ·the scope of regulatory approvals, including limitations or warnings in a product’s regulatory-approved labeling; ·demonstration of the clinical safety and efficacy of the product or technology; ·the absence of evidence of undesirable side effects of the product or technology that delay or extend trials; ·the lack of regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; ·its cost-effectiveness; ·its potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; ·the availability of third-party reimbursement; and ·the marketing and distribution support it receives. If any of our products or drug delivery platforms fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, even if we gain regulatory approval and market acceptance, further delays due to, for example, the FDA not removing unapproved products from the market in a timely manner, may affect our ability to generate revenue quickly after market acceptance. Our products may not reach the commercial market for a number of reasons. Drug development is an inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. Successful Research and Development (“R&D) of pharmaceutical products is difficult, expensive and time consuming. Many product candidates fail to reach the market. Our success will depend on the development and the successful commercialization of previously Unapproved Marketed Drugs (“UMDs”) products and development of products that utilize our drug delivery platforms. If the UMDs products and/or the products incorporating our drug delivery platforms fail to reach the commercial market, our future revenues would be adversely affected. Even if our products and current drug delivery platforms appear promising during development, there may not be successful commercial applications developed for them for a number of reasons, including: ·the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), the competent authority of an EU Member State or an Institutional Review Board (“IRB”), or an Ethics Committee (EU equivalent to IRB), or our partners may delay or halt applicable clinical trials; ·we or our partners may face slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment in clinical trials, or may devote insufficient funding to the clinical trials; ·our current drug delivery platforms and drug products may be found to be ineffective or cause harmful side effects, or may fail during any stage of pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; ·we or our partners may find certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, may not be economical to produce; ·managed care providers may be unwilling or unable to reimburse patients at an economically attractive level for products under development; or ·our products could fail to obtain regulatory approval or, if approved, fail to achieve market acceptance, fail to be included within the pricing and reimbursement schemes of the U.S. or EU Member States, or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. We must invest substantial sums in Research and Development (“R&D) in order to remain competitive, and we may not fully recover these investments. To be successful in the highly competitive pharmaceutical industry, we must commit substantial resources each year to R&D in order to develop new products and enhance our technologies. In 2014, we spent $17.3 million on R&D. Our ongoing investments in R&D for future products could result in higher costs without a proportionate increase, or any increase, in revenues. The R&D process is lengthy and carries a substantial risk of failure. If our R&D does not yield sufficient products that achieve commercial success, our future operating results will be adversely affected. 4 The development of several of our drug delivery platforms and products depend on the services of a single provider and any interruption of operations of such provider could significantly delay or have a material adverse effect on our product pipeline. As part of the divestiture of our development and manufacturing facility (“Pessac Facility”) to Recipharm AB (“Recipharm”), we entered into certain agreements with Recipharm for the development, supply of clinical materials and potentially the supply of commercial batches for several of our products incorporating our drug delivery platforms, as well as our Medusa™ polymer(s); for details see “Item 