Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risks described below, and others that we may not anticipate, could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. As a result, the trading price of our Senior Secured Notes could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We require substantial capital to finance our business. We have borrowed, and will continue to borrow, substantial amounts of capital to fund our operations and we periodically refinance such debt. If we cannot obtain the financing we need, or cannot do so on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our liquidity could be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, which includes $141.3 million under portfolio warehouse facilities that are due to expire between 2012 and 2013. The portfolio warehouse facilities contain term-out features resulting in final maturities between 12 and 24 months from their expiration dates, depending on the facility. We historically have restored capacity under our portfolio warehouse facilities from time to time by securitizing portfolios of finance receivables. However, the securitization market experienced significant disruptions in recent periods, and our ability to successfully and efficiently complete securitizations was and may in the future be affected by several factors, including the: • condition of financial markets generally; • conditions in the asset-backed securities markets specifically; • performance of our portfolio. Due to the disruption in the securitization markets at the onset of the financial crisis, we were able to obtain alternative financing through a variety of debt instruments, including our pooled auto loan program (“PALP”) through which we entered into private securitization transactions and were able to secure over $800 million in portfolio financing. We also issued $60.1 million in junior secured notes to both related an unrelated third parties, as well as $75.0 million in subordinated notes to our principal shareholder. Although we have secured substantial additional sources of financing and began doing securitizations again in December 2009, we may not be able to secure similar additional financing, and we may in the future face difficulties in renewing loans and facilities if lenders and counterparties are also facing liquidity and capital challenges. Our substantial debt could have adverse effects on our business and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred $73.1 million in interest expense associated with our debt obligations. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, we may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse effects on our business, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, and related expenses, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations; 13 Table of Contents • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates; • the agreements that govern our indebtedness contain, and any agreements to refinance our indebtedness likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with such covenants may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of that indebtedness and trigger an event of default under other indebtedness; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry; and • our leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance and cash flows, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seeking to raise additional capital. The terms of the agreements that govern our indebtedness contain limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness then outstanding. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default or limits on our ability to borrow funds to finance our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness (including the indenture governing the notes) contain, and any agreements that govern future indebtedness may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • make investments, loans, or advances; • engage in merger and acquisition activity; • pay dividends, redeem capital stock, or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into new lines of business; and • enter into transactions with our affiliates. 14 Table of Contents The agreements that govern our indebtedness also contain certain covenants relating to the performance of our portfolio, which ultimately impacts the manner in which we operate our business. For example, the advance rate on our portfolio warehouse facilities may be reduced if our portfolio does not perform as expected. The agreements governing any future indebtedness could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those that are currently applicable to us. Failure to comply with the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under one or more such agreements, could cause cross-defaults on other agreements governing our indebtedness, including the notes, and could prevent us from securing alternate sources of funds necessary to operate our business. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we have breached technical or other covenants under the agreements governing our indebtedness, and we have obtained waivers from the applicable lenders. In a future event of default, there can be no assurance we will be able to receive waivers, and our inability to obtain these waivers may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to obtain certain financings in the future is restricted by the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of the debt incurrence test under the indenture relating to the notes. We do not currently meet these requirements nor do we anticipate meeting these requirements for the foreseeable future, which will limit our ability to obtain certain financings, especially the incurrence of senior unsecured debt. There is a high degree of risk associated with borrowers with subprime credit. The allowance for credit losses that we have established to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio may not be sufficient or may need to be substantially increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your collateral. Substantially all of the sales financing we extend and the loans that we service are with borrowers with subprime credit. Loans to borrowers with subprime credit have lower collection rates and are subject to higher loss rates than loans to borrowers with prime credit. Although we have extensive experience in subprime auto lending, there can be no assurance that our collections and loss rate will not increase over time. We maintain an allowance for credit losses to cover losses on an aggregate basis at a level we consider sufficient to cover estimated losses inherent in our portfolio of receivables. On a quarterly basis we review and may make upward or downward adjustments to the allowance. However, our allowance may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our portfolio, and we may need to increase our allowance for reasons related to, among other things, the continued weak economic environment and deterioration of the housing market, or significant increases in delinquencies or charge-offs. A significant variation in the timing of or increase in credit losses in our portfolio or a substantial increase in our allowance or provision for credit losses would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because a portion of the collateral securing the notes consists of receivables, the remaining residual property rights in receivables securing other financings (and the value of which are therefore determined by the value of receivables sold or otherwise pledged) or the remaining residual value of special purpose entities that have themselves put in place financings secured by receivables (and the value of which are therefore determined by the value of receivables owned), the value of the collateral securing the notes will be sensitive to the performance of the underlying receivables. Our focus on customers with subprime credit may raise concerns on the part of future business partners, lenders, counterparties, and regulators and may adversely affect our business. We focus on the subprime segment of the used vehicle sales and financing market and provide loans to borrowers with subprime credit who, as a class, have lower collection rates and are subject to higher loss rates than prime and near prime borrowers. In addition, the subprime industry has been the subject of extensive media attention, enhanced regulatory scrutiny, and Congressional hearings as a result of what has been characterized as inappropriate consumer practices by subprime lenders in the mortgage industry. 15 Table of Contents These issues may raise concerns on the part of future business partners, lenders, counterparties, and regulators. As a result, we are unable to assess whether, and to what extent, they may have an adverse effect on our business in the future, including on our reputation, revenues and profitability. In particular, we cannot predict whether these issues may negatively affect our ability to obtain new financing to support our operations or any necessary regulatory approvals or business licenses in connection with our plans to expand our business, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Interest rates affect our profitability and cash flows and an increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and lower our profitability, cash flows, and liquidity. Much of our financing income results from the difference between the rate of interest that we pay on the funds we borrow and the rate of interest that we earn on the finance receivables in our portfolio. While we earn interest on our finance receivables at a fixed rate, we pay interest on certain of our borrowings at floating rates. When interest rates increase, our interest expense increases. Increases in our interest expense that we cannot offset by increases in interest income could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and liquidity. Correspondingly, a significant reduction in our average APR could have a material adverse impact on our profitability, if not offset by a corresponding reduction in our loan losses, borrowing costs, or increases to gross margin on vehicles sold. Changes in accounting policies could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Materially different amounts could be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently considering various proposed rule changes including, but not limited to, potential changes in accounting for leases, revenue recognition, and impairment of financial assets. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is currently considering adopting rules that would require U.S. issuers to prepare their financial statements contained in SEC filings in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Specifically, IFRS proposed changes would impact fair value of financial instruments and revenue recognition. The implementation of these or other new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition. Our proprietary credit scoring system may not perform as expected and fail to properly quantify the credit risks associated with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have developed, and revise from time to time, complex proprietary credit scoring models that use traditional and non-traditional variables to classify our customers into various risk grades that are linked to loan parameters. There is no guarantee that our credit scoring models will perform as intended or that they will perform in future market conditions. Failure of our credit scoring models to properly quantify the credit risks associated with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information furnished to us by or on behalf of our customers. If we and our systems are unable to detect any misrepresentations in this information, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our typical customers have limited or no credit histories. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we rely heavily on information furnished to us by or on behalf of our customers, including employment and 16 Table of Contents personal financial information. If a significant percentage of our customers intentionally or negligently misrepresented any of this information, and we and our systems did not detect such misrepresentations, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. General economic conditions and their effect on automobile sales may adversely affect our business. Vehicles sales have historically been impacted by economic factors. Many factors affect the industry, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary income, interest rates, the price of fuel, and credit availability. Deteriorating economic and market conditions throughout the United States or within a region in which we do business could result in a decline in vehicle sales, a decrease in collectability of our finance receivables, or an increase in vehicle pricing. We cannot assure you that the industry will not experience sustained periods of decline in vehicle sales in the future. Any future decline could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and if we are found to be in violation of any of the federal, state, or local laws or regulations applicable to us, our business could suffer. We are also subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings which, if the outcomes are unfavorable to us, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and prospects. The automotive retailing and finance industries are subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, and retail financing, debt collection, consumer protection, environmental, health and safety, creditor, wage-hour, anti-discrimination, and other employment practices laws and regulations. The violation of these or future requirements or laws and regulations can result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against us, which may include a cease and desist order against the subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our license to operate the subject business. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenditures and other costs to comply with these requirements, laws, and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state, and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, financing, and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. In addition, many state attorneys general have been increasingly active in the area of consumer protection. We are also subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators. There can be no assurance that such activities will not continue in the future or have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we may be involved in various legal and administrative proceedings. We are also currently the subject of investigative inquiries from the Consumer Protection Division of the Office of Texas Attorney General. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” It is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings or any claims made against us, and the outcome of any such proceedings or claims could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. Changes in laws, regulations, or policies may adversely affect our business. The laws and regulations governing our lending, servicing, debt collection, and insurance activities or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the federal level or in any of the states in which we operate may change at any time and may have an adverse effect on our business. New legislation, including proposals to substantially reform the financial institution regulatory system, is being considered by the current Congress and new legislative proposals will from time to time continue to be introduced in Congress in the future. It is possible that, in response to the recent economic conditions and the financial crisis, laws and regulations will be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models or objectives. For example, on July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which significantly changes the regulation of financial 17 Table of Contents institutions and the financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which has the authority to promulgate consumer protection regulations applicable to all entities offering consumer financial services or products, including non-bank commercial companies in the business of extending credit and servicing consumer loans. Although the CFPB has begun operations and now has a director, the exact scope and substance of the regulations that may be adopted by the CFPB, particularly as they relate to our operations, is still unknown at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial industry participants of all types, many of which may have an impact on our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, including by the CFPB, are likely to affect our cost of doing business, may limit or expand our permissible activities, may affect the competitive balance within our industry and market areas and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our management continues to assess the Dodd-Frank Act’s probable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and to monitor developments involving the entities charged with promulgating regulations thereunder. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and on us in particular, is uncertain at this time. The nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions and non-bank commercial companies, including as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, is very unpredictable at this time, and any changes could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, governmental regulations which would deplete the supply of used vehicles, such as environmental protection regulations governing emissions or fuel consumption, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, Congress has previously considered and may in the future adopt various forms of legislation designed to spur automobile sales. Depending on the legislation that is adopted, if any, these incentives may only be available to consumers who purchase new vehicles or vehicles achieving high fuel-efficiency standards. If these incentives are limited solely to purchasers of new vehicles, or if we are unable to maintain an inventory of vehicles achieving the mandated fuel-efficiency standards, this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We are unable to predict how these or any other future legislative proposals or programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. As a result of the credit crisis, we have in the past, and could be required in the future to reduce the scope of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. During 2008 and early 2009, we contracted our operations in response to the economic crisis. While we expanded our operations and opened new dealerships throughout 2010 and 2011, if we again experience economic uncertainty or economic deterioration, this could require us to reduce the scope of our operations. If we choose to close dealerships in the future, we face certain additional risks, including risks related to: • an inability to obtain anticipated cost reductions; • a reduction in portfolio originations; • legal and regulatory risks related to closed stores and lay-offs, including the risk of lawsuits; • vandalism, theft, or other damages to vacant stores; 18 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s attention from normal business operations; and • failure to generate sufficient cash flows to help fund our operations. If we were to lose the right to service our portfolio of receivables, this could result in decreased collections, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We retain the right to service all receivables that we finance, including those pledged as collateral to our portfolio warehouse facilities and those sold to securitization trusts. We are entitled to a fee for our servicing activities, typically equal to 4% of the value of receivables being serviced. As of December 31, 2011, our serviced loan portfolio consisted of approximately 137,300 active accounts, with a total outstanding principal balance of $1.5 billion. Subject to certain conditions, if we experience an event of default under the agreements governing our financing arrangements, we may lose the right to service our receivables. Loss of this right could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. In addition, if we lose our servicing rights, transitioning servicing activities to a third party could result in interruptions in collections, which could decrease the likelihood that the receivables will be repaid. Moreover, a replacement servicer might lack the requisite experience in servicing such subprime receivables. As a result, we may experience decreased collections, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and on the value of the collateral securing the notes. Our operations and the finance receivables we generate are concentrated geographically, and a downturn in the economies or markets in which we operate could adversely affect vehicle sales and collections. As of December 31, 2011, we operated our dealerships in 17 states. Adverse economic conditions, natural disasters, or other factors affecting any state or region where high concentrations of our customers reside could adversely affect vehicle sales and collections. If adverse economic conditions, natural disasters, or other factors occur that affect the regions in which we do business, or if borrowers in these regions experience financial difficulties, a significant number of borrowers may not be able to make timely loan payments, if at all, or may be more prone to filing for bankruptcy protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations. Sales of motor vehicles historically have been subject to substantial cyclical variation characterized by periods of oversupply and weak demand. We believe that many factors affect the industry, including consumer confidence in the economy, the level of personal discretionary spending, interest rates, fuel prices, credit availability, and unemployment rates. A recession or an industry or general economic slowdown could materially adversely impact our business. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the first quarter of the calendar year than in the last three quarters of the calendar year. We believe these results are due to seasonal buying patterns resulting in part because many of our customers receive income tax refunds during the first quarter of the year, which are a primary source of down payments on used vehicle purchases. Our loan performance also has historically followed a seasonal pattern with delinquencies and charge-offs being the highest in the second half of the year. Accordingly, our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. A significant portion of our general and administrative expenses do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in revenues. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal patterns. Such patterns may change, however, due to factors affecting the automotive industry or otherwise. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to effectively manage our growth could harm our business, we may not be able to access the additional financing required to fund our growth, and our plans to expand our operations will expose us to increased legal and regulatory risks that may adversely affect our business. We continually evaluate expanding our operations by opening new dealerships, some of which will potentially be located in existing DriveTime markets and some of which are expected to be located in markets in which we do not currently operate. This growth may result in the incurrence of additional debt and operating expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Moreover, growth and expansion of our operations may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our executive management team, management information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel, and regulatory compliance systems and personnel. We may not be able to expand our operations or effectively manage or integrate our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to achieve our planned growth or manage our growth effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, expansion into new states will increase our legal and regulatory risk. Our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in any new jurisdiction, and ensuing inquiries or investigations by regulatory and enforcement authorities, may result in regulatory action, including suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses, civil or criminal penalties, or other disciplinary actions, and restrictions on or suspension of some or all of our business operations. As a result, our business could suffer, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to additional legal risk. This could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us, subject us to regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, or other proceedings, or lead to increased regulatory or supervisory concerns. We may also be required to spend additional time and resources on any remedial measures, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the timing or form of any current or future regulatory or law enforcement initiatives, and any such initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and if we are unable to compete with our competitors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our primary competitors are the numerous small “buy-here, pay-here” dealerships, independent used vehicle dealers, and used vehicle departments of franchise dealers that operate in the subprime segment of the used vehicle sales industry, and the banks and finance companies that purchase their loans. There is no assurance that we can successfully distinguish ourselves from our competitors or compete in this industry in a cost-effective manner or at all. Moreover, if our competitors grow and strengthen through consolidation in the industry while we are unable to identify attractive consolidation opportunities, we could end up at a competitive disadvantage and experience declining market share and revenue. In addition, larger companies with significant financial and other resources have periodically entered or announced plans to enter the used vehicle sales and/or finance industry, or relax their credit standards and compete with us, at least at the upper end of our customer segment. These dealerships also compete with us in areas such as the purchase of inventory, which can result in increased wholesale costs for used vehicles and lower margins, and the dealerships and finance companies could also enter into direct competition with us at any time at the lower end of the subprime market. Increased competition may cause downward pressure on the interest rates that we charge on finance receivables originated by our dealerships, or lower margins, or may cause an increase in our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain sufficient numbers of used vehicles for our inventory in a cost-effective manner, our operations and financial results will be adversely impacted. We require a large number of quality used vehicles for our dealerships. We acquire most of our used-vehicle inventory through auctions, and primarily through two auction companies. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired approximately 88% of our vehicles at auction, and approximately 78% of our vehicles from 20 Table of Contents two auction companies. To a lesser extent, we also acquire used vehicles from wholesalers, franchised and independent dealers, and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental companies. The sources from which we can purchase vehicles of a quality and in a quantity acceptable to us are limited, and there is substantial competition to acquire the vehicles we purchase. We may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory in a cost-effective manner or at all. In this regard, recent declines in new vehicle sales and a reduced number of vehicles that are eligible for daily rental will adversely impact the availability and quality of future inventory. Any decline in the number of or increased competition for quality vehicles could diminish our ability to obtain sufficient inventory at a price that we can reflect in retail market prices and would adversely affect our business. If our inventory or other costs of operations increase and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, we may be unable to maintain or grow margins. Our inventory and other costs are variable and dependent upon various factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our average cost of vehicle sold has increased 38% over the past two years. A continuing rise in vehicle acquisition cost could erode our sales margins and negatively affect our results of operations. Rising auction prices have also lead to the acquisition of a higher mileage and older age vehicle, which could cause an increase in reconditioning and warranty costs, both of which would also negatively affect our sales margins and overall profitability. If we incur cost increases, we may seek to pass those increases along to our customers. However, the income of our average customer limits the maximum monthly payment our customers can afford, and we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers in the form of higher sales prices, which would adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase margins. Recently, used vehicle values have continued to increase. Our business is exposed to various operational risks. A failure of or interruption in our communications and information systems could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems and is exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees or other parties, record-keeping error, errors resulting from faulty computer or telecommunication systems, computer failures or interruption, and damage to computer and telecommunication systems caused by internal or external events. We periodically update or change the integrated computer systems and other components of our operating systems. Any significant failure of such systems, whether as a result of third-party actions or in connection with planned upgrades and conversions, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to collect on contracts and comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Additionally, our systems are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Our systems may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions to or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these incidents. We have backup systems and we periodically test disaster recovery scenarios; however, this may not prevent a systems failure or allow us to timely resolve any systems failures. Any interruption to our systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Reliance on our outsourced business functions could adversely affect our business. We outsource a portion of our collections and internet sales functions to companies in Barbados and Honduras. While we believe there are benefits to these arrangements, outsourcing increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. We rely on these service providers to provide a high level of service and support, which subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service. For example, the outsourcing of collection functions could result in lower collection rates than we would have achieved had we performed the same functions internally. In addition, if these outsourcing arrangements were not renewed or were terminated or the services provided to us were otherwise disrupted, we would have to obtain these services from an alternative 21 Table of Contents provider or provide them using our internal resources. We may be unable to replace, or be delayed in replacing, these sources and there is a risk that we would be unable to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner. In the future, we may outsource other business functions. If any of these or other risks related to outsourcing were realized, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft, or loss, the occurrence of any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our customers, employees, and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data, and credit card numbers. Our computer networks and the networks of certain of our vendors that hold and manage confidential information on our behalf may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, employee theft or misuse, computer hackers, computer viruses, and other security threats. Confidential information may also inadvertently become available to third parties when we integrate systems or migrate data to our servers following an acquisition or in connection with periodic hardware or software upgrades. Due to the sensitive nature of the personal information stored on our servers, our networks may be targeted by hackers seeking to access this data. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate sensitive information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use, or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require us to implement certain policies and procedures, such as the procedures we adopted to comply with the Red Flags Rule that was promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and that requires the establishment of guidelines and policies regarding identity theft, and could require us to make certain notifications of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. A major breach, theft, or loss of personal information that is held by us or our vendors, or a violation of laws or regulations relating to the same, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. New business ventures could expose us to business risks not previously encountered. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we introduced an indirect lending line of the business through a wholly-owned subsidiary called GFC Lending, LLC dba GO Financial (“GO”). This line of business is in addition to our other operations, and does not replace DriveTime vehicle sales or financings. Although we have leveraged much of the knowledge and resources of our existing infrastructure, the third party nature of GO transactions exposes GO’s portfolio to risk that has not been traditionally present in the DriveTime portfolio. We will continue to monitor and make changes to our business plan to minimize risks to the GO portfolio, however, the following risks are inherent to GO: • GO will rely on third party dealers, not owned or operated by DriveTime, for its originations; the quality and accuracy of the loans originated, including customer fraud, vehicle quality, and the presence or absence of warranties or extended services contracts covering vehicle repair, will impact the quality of receivables in our GO portfolio. • GO deals have customer payment terms different from our traditional arrangements, but those which are customary in the indirect lending business. 22 Table of Contents • The infrastructure we built to facilitate GO transactions could fail and would result in substantial write-offs to capitalized software projects. • GO may experience operating difficulty in certain states in which we are doing business due to regulatory restrictions specific to subprime lending. • Loan portfolio performance may prove to be unprofitable if loss rates of the GO portfolio exceed our expectations. • The GO brand could negatively impact the DriveTime brand. • As GO grows, it may end up with a concentration of third-party dealers in a state or states increasing credit quality and dealer risks. • Third parties will administer ancillary product offerings, such as vehicle service contracts, and if they fail to perform our loans may perform worse than anticipated and we will have the cost and risk of finding competent, cost effective alternatives in a timely manner. • Our third-party dealers must also comply with credit and trade practice statutes and regulations. Their failure to comply with these statutes and regulations could result in consumers having rights of rescission and other remedies. • The sale of vehicle service contracts and other products by our third party dealers in connection with loans assigned to us is also subject to state laws and regulations. As we are the holder of loans that may, in part, finance these products, some of these state laws and regulations may apply to our servicing and collection of the loans. Although these laws and regulations do not significantly affect our business, there can be no assurance that insurance or other regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which these products are offered will not seek to regulate or restrict the operation of our business in these jurisdictions. • A number of risks related to DriveTime also apply to GO, including capital to finance the business, our substantial debt, cash flow, compliance with our agreements with our lenders, the risk of being in the subprime segment of the market, interest rates, efficacy of our credit scoring model, servicing of our loans, key personnel, confidentiality of customer information, and regulatory changes and concerns. There can be no assurance that GO will be successful, and it could have unintended consequences which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. GO also involves numerous other risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We are dependent on the services of certain key personnel and the loss of their services could harm our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued employment of our senior executive management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Raymond C. Fidel, our Chief Financial Officer, Mark G. Sauder, our Executive Vice President of Credit Risk, Alan J. Appelman, and our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Jon D. Ehlinger. The unexpected loss of the services of any of our key executive management personnel or our inability to attract new management when necessary could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance on any member of our executive management team other than Mr. Fidel. Additionally, our success depends on the key management personnel at our corporate offices and the dealerships in our local markets. The market for qualified employees in the automotive and finance industries and in the markets in which we operate, particularly for qualified general managers, loan managers, and collections personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. We also believe that our competitors pursue many of our managerial and collections and sales and service personnel from time to time. The loss of a group of key employees in any of our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in that market or across many or all markets in which we operate. 23 Table of Contents If all or some portion of our employees elect to collectively bargain or join a union, these actions could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2011, none of our employees was represented by a labor union. The automotive industry is historically an industry in which there is a high degree of labor union participation. If all or some portion of our employees elect to join a labor union, we could experience increased operational costs, work stoppages or strikes, and/or barriers to communication between management and employees. These factors could lead to inefficiencies in the operation of the affected facilities or groups and could cause us to experience a material adverse effect. We are subject to environmental laws, regulations, and permits that could impose significant liabilities, costs, and obligations. We are subject to a complex variety of federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and permits relating to the environment and human health and safety. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. These environmental requirements, and the enforcement thereof, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time, and may necessitate substantial capital expenditures or operating costs. Under certain environmental laws, we could be responsible for the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ current or former owned or operated properties or third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot assure you that our costs and liabilities relating to environmental matters will not adversely affect our results of operations, business, financial condition, reputation, or liquidity. States impose limits on the interest rates we can charge on the installment sales contracts we provide to our customers, and new or lower limits may harm our ability to offset increased interest expenses and can adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We operate in states that impose limits on the contract interest rate that a lender may charge, and laws or regulations that limit the interest rates that we can charge can adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. When a state limits the amount of interest that we can charge on our installment sales contracts, we may not be able to offset an increase in interest expense caused by rising interest rates or greater levels of borrowings under our credit facilities. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will not be prohibited by new state laws from charging the interest rates we are currently able to charge on our installment sales contracts or from raising interest rates above certain desired levels. Therefore, these interest rate limitations can adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. A change in state laws, or the application thereof, relating to the extent to which we can obtain a refund of sales tax for customer defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business. In general, we are required to collect and remit state and local sales tax on each vehicle we sell. Subject to certain requirements, certain states allow us to collect a refund of prior sales taxes paid to the extent that the receivable becomes uncollectible. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011 we claimed $12.3 million, $8.9 million, and $8.4 million, respectively, in sales tax credits and refunds relating to receivables that have become uncollectible. If state laws change with respect to the extent to which we can claim a refund for sales tax in such situations, or state taxing authorities change their position with respect thereto, we could experience a material adverse effect. In this regard, on February 24, 2011, we received an unfavorable ruling from the Nevada Supreme Court with respect to the efficacy of certain sales tax refunds we requested for prior tax years. While only applicable to 2002 and 2003, this ruling could affect subsequent tax years as well. We may be adversely affected by product liability exposure claims. DriveTime, and the automotive industry generally, is exposed to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products to perform to specifications results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury, and/or death. In connection with such product liability claims, we may incur significant costs to defend 24 Table of Contents such claims and we may experience material product liability losses in the future. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including insurance to the extent it is available, to cover such product liability claims, and the outcome of various legal actions and claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have programs for our customers to provide insurance covering our collateral in the event of theft or an accident. If our customers do not maintain insurance, it could negatively impact our operations and/or profitability. Certain of our customers have difficulty obtaining and maintaining affordable insurance for their vehicles. We offer a separate collateral protection insurance program. Under this program, we offer customers dual interest collateral protection insurance administered through a third party with whom we have a contractual relationship. We do not offer a liability insurance product. There is a risk customers will not maintain collateral protection insurance, which could adversely affect our recoveries. Failure to register our dealership sales business subsidiary in the relevant jurisdictions would cause a severe disruption in our operations. In connection with our applications for renewal of the relevant license or registration, a state licensing authority could decide to withhold or delay approval of the relevant license or registration and prohibit DriveTime Car Sales, a subsidiary of DTAG, from operating one or more of our dealerships until certain requirements are met. We cannot anticipate what these requirements might entail or whether we will be able to comply with any such requirements in a timely manner. If the relevant license or registration is not granted for DriveTime Car Sales to operate in any state, it would cause a severe disruption in our operations in that state, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently expanded our operations into new states and intend to continue our expansion. A failure to attain the proper licensing and registration requirements for our expansion could disrupt our ability to further expand our business. We could suffer a material adverse effect if the IRS challenged our position on intercompany sales of receivables. We generally recognize losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the intercompany sales of receivables from DTAG to DTAC. This practice is standard within our industry and our interpretation is not meaningfully different from other companies in our industry. However, the IRS may challenge our position and seek to defer our recognition of such losses. If the IRS were able to successfully challenge our position, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Chairman and principal shareholder can direct our management and policies through his right to elect our board of directors and to control substantially all matters requiring a stockholder vote. Ernest C. Garcia II, our Chairman and principal shareholder, beneficially owns the majority of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Garcia is not actively involved in the day-to-day management of our operations, and, in addition, certain agreements to which we are a party, including the indenture governing the notes, the agreements governing our other indebtedness, and our origination agreement with DTAC pursuant to which DTAC purchases all of the auto loan receivables we originate, limit the control Mr. Garcia otherwise could exercise over our business and operations. In practice, Mr. Garcia has limited or no involvement in business or operational decisions, which are reserved for the executive management team and the board of directors. Nevertheless, subject to the limitations provided in such agreements, Mr. Garcia has the power to elect our entire board of directors and determine the terms and outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the amendment of our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Because his interests as an equity holder may conflict with the interests of holders of the notes, he may cause us to take actions that, in his judgment, could enhance his equity but may be prejudicial to the holders of the notes. 25 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of affiliations that our directors or executive officers have with Verde Investments, Inc. or other companies with which we have material relationships. Ernest C. Garcia II, our Chairman and controlling stockholder, is also the owner of Verde Investments, Inc., a company with which we have historically had material leasing and financing relationships. See “Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” In addition, there may occur future transactions between us and Verde which could give rise to a conflict of interest on the part of Mr. Garcia. While transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our Board of Directors and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, any such conflict of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer, nor is it a well-known seasoned issuer, and, therefore, this Item is not applicable to the Company. 26 Table of Contents 