ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The performance of our company is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. If we are unable to attract and retain agents and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced. We compete to attract and retain exclusive agents for Farm Bureau Life and independent agents for EquiTrust Life. Intense competition exists for persons and independent distributors with demonstrated ability. We compete primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial position. Sales and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and additional distribution sources for our products. Changing interest rates and market volatility, and general economic conditions, affect the risks and the returns on both our products and our investment portfolio. The market value of our investments and our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains or losses, may vary depending on economic and market conditions. Such conditions include the shape of the yield curve, the level of interest rates and recognized equity and bond indices, including, without limitation, the S&P 500, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the NASDAQ 100, the Lehman Aggregate Bond Index and the Lehman U.S. Treasury Bond Index (the “Indices”). Interest rate risk is our primary market risk exposure. Substantial and sustained increases and decreases in market interest rates can materially and adversely affect the profitability of our products, the market value of our investments and the reported value of stockholders’ equity. 19 Table of Contents From time to time, for business or regulatory reasons, we may be required to sell certain of our investments at a time when their market value is less than the carrying value of these investments. Rising interest rates may cause declines in the value of our fixed maturity securities. With respect to our available for sale fixed maturity securities, such declines (net of income taxes and certain adjustments for assumed changes in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of insurance in force acquired and unearned revenue reserve) reduce our reported stockholders’ equity and book value per share. A key component of our net income is the investment spread. A narrowing of investment spreads may adversely affect operating results. Although we have the right to adjust interest crediting rates on a substantial portion of our direct business in force, changes to crediting rates may not be sufficient to maintain targeted investment spreads in all economic and market environments. In general, our ability to lower crediting rates is subject to a minimum crediting rate filed with and approved by state regulators. In addition, competition and other factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid the narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions. The profitability of our index annuities that are tied to market indices is significantly affected by the interest earned on investments, by the cost of underlying call options purchased to fund the credits owed to contract holders and by the minimum interest guarantees owed to the contract holder, if any. If there were little or no gains in the call options purchased over the expected life of an index annuity, we would incur expenses for credited interest over and above our option costs. In addition, if we are not successful in matching the terms of call options purchased with the terms of the index annuities, index credits could exceed call option proceeds. These items would cause our spreads to tighten and reduce our profits. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Market Risks of Financial Instruments” for further discussion of our interest rate risk exposure and information regarding our asset-liability and hedging programs to help mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit quality risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and reported book value per share. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of our fixed maturity securities and other debt securities (other than our U.S. agency securities), and borrowers on our commercial mortgages, will default on principal and interest payments, particularly if a major downturn in economic activity occurs. As of December 31, 2005, we held $6,965.1 million of fixed income securities, $344.2 million of which represented below-investment grade holdings. Of these $344.2 million of below-investment grade holdings, 78.3% were acquired as investment grade holdings but, as of December 31, 2005, had been downgraded to below investment grade. An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolios could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. We use derivative instruments to fund the credits on our index annuities. We purchase derivative instruments from a number of counterparties directly and through American Equity. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, we will have failed to provide for crediting to policyholders related to the appreciation in the applicable indices. Any such failure could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. We also have six interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $300.0 million to manage interest rate risk on a portion of our flexible premium deferred annuity contracts. We purchased these instruments from two different counterparties. If these counterparties fail to honor their obligations, we will have additional exposure to an increase in interest rates, which could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. 20 Table of Contents As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries for funds to meet our obligations, but our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us is limited by law, and could be affected by risk based capital computations. As a holding company, we primarily rely on dividends from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other cash payments in the future may materially affect our ability to pay our parent company payment obligations, including debt service and dividends on our common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries, Farm Bureau Life and EquiTrust Life, to pay dividends to the parent company is limited by law to earned profits (statutory unassigned surplus) as of the date the dividend is paid, as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities of the State of Iowa. In addition, under the Iowa Insurance Holding Company Act, the Life Companies may not pay an “extraordinary” dividend without prior notice to and approval by the Iowa Insurance Commissioner. An “extraordinary” dividend is defined under the Iowa Insurance Holding Company Act as any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of policyholders’ surplus (total statutory capital stock and statutory surplus) as of December 31 of the preceding year, or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations of the insurer for the 12-month period ending December 31 of the preceding year. During 2006, the maximum amount legally available for distribution to FBL Financial without further regulatory approval is $44.9 million from Farm Bureau Life and $21.6 million from EquiTrust Life. With respect to the amount available from Farm Bureau Life, $39.2 million is not available until December 2006 due to the timing and amount of dividend payments made during 2005. In addition, the Life Companies are subject to the risk-based capital, or RBC, requirement of the NAIC set forth in the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act. The main purpose of the Model Act is to provide a tool for insurance regulators to evaluate the capital of insurers relative to the risks assumed by them and determine whether there is a need for possible corrective action. U.S. insurers and reinsurers are required to report the results of their RBC calculations as part of the statutory annual statements filed with state insurance regulatory authorities. The Model Act provides for four different levels of regulatory actions based on annual statements, each of which may be triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital, as defined in the Model Act, is less than a corresponding RBC. Ÿ The company action level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 200% of its authorized control level RBC, as defined in the Model Act. At the company action level, the insurer must submit a plan to the regulatory authority that discusses proposed corrective actions to improve its capital position. Ÿ The regulatory action level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 150% of its authorized control level RBC. At the regulatory action level, the regulatory authority will perform a special examination of the insurer and issue an order specifying corrective actions that must be followed. Ÿ If an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than its authorized control level RBC, the regulatory authority is authorized (although not mandated) to take regulatory control of the insurer. Ÿ The mandatory control level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 70% of its authorized control level RBC, and at that level the regulatory authority must take regulatory control of the insurer. Regulatory control may lead to rehabilitation or liquidation of an insurer. Although we believe our current sources of funds provide adequate cash flow to us to meet our current and reasonably foreseeable future obligations, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to these sources in the future. A significant ratings downgrade may have a material adverse effect on our business. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. If our ratings were lowered significantly, our ability to market products to new customers could be harmed and existing policyholders might cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our net income and liquidity. Our ratings reflect the agencies’ opinions as to the financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders of our insurance company subsidiaries. 21 Table of Contents There is no assurance that a credit rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be reduced, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agency, if in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. See “Item 1. Business — Ratings and Competition” for a summary of our current ratings. Our earnings are influenced by our claims experience, which is difficult to estimate. If our future claims experience does not match our pricing assumptions or past results, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings are significantly influenced by the claims paid under our insurance contracts and will vary from period to period depending upon the amount of claims incurred. There is only limited predictability of claims experience within any given quarter or year. The liability that we have established for future insurance and annuity policy benefits is based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including interest rates, expected claims, persistency and expenses. In the event our future experience does not match our pricing assumptions or our past results, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Inaccuracies in assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality and interest rates used in calculating reserve and deferred policy acquisition expense and deferred sales inducement amounts could have a material adverse impact on our net income. The process of calculating deferred policy acquisition expense and deferred sales inducement amounts for an insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with the company), mortality (the relative incidence of death in a given time or place) and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. Inaccuracies in one or more of these assumptions could have a material adverse impact on our net income. Changes in federal tax laws may affect sales of our products and profitability. The annuity and life insurance products that we market generally offer tax advantages to the policyholders, as compared to other savings instruments such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds. This tax preference is the deferral of income tax on the earnings during the accumulation period of the annuity or insurance policy as opposed to the current taxation of other savings instruments. Legislation eliminating this tax deferral would have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell annuities. Congress has from time to time considered legislation which would reduce or eliminate the benefits to policyholders of the deferral of taxation on the growth of value within certain insurance products or might otherwise affect the taxation of insurance products and insurance companies relative to other investments. To the extent that the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, is revised to reduce the tax-deferred status of insurance products, or to reduce the taxation of competing products, all life insurance companies, including us, could be adversely affected. All segments of our business are highly regulated and these regulations or changes in them could affect our profitability. We are subject to regulation under applicable insurance statutes, including insurance holding company statutes, in the various states in which our life subsidiaries write insurance. Insurance regulation is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect shareholders of insurance companies or their holding companies. Regulators oversee matters relating to sales practices, policy forms, claims practices, guaranty funds, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, changes in control and payment of dividends. State insurance regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future. As noted above, our life subsidiaries are subject to the NAIC’s risk-based capital requirements which are used by insurance regulators as an early warning tool to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized insurance companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Our life subsidiaries also may be required, under solvency or guaranty 22 Table of Contents laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including pension regulation, age and sex discrimination, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation, can significantly affect the insurance business. As increased scrutiny has been placed upon the insurance regulatory framework, a number of state legislatures have considered or enacted legislative proposals that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance companies and holding company systems. Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past which could result in the federal government assuming some role in the regulation of the insurance industry. Furthermore, the NASD is attempting to regulate the sale of index annuities and limit sales of these products to registered representatives. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving. The changing regulatory framework could affect the design of such products and our ability to sell certain products. Any changes in these laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our investment management subsidiary is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser, and certain of its employees may be subject to state regulation. This subsidiary also manages investment companies (mutual funds) that are registered under the Investment Company Act, which places additional restrictions on its managers. Moreover, certain of our separate accounts are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. The investment companies we advise and our registered separate accounts are themselves highly regulated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, our broker/dealer subsidiary that distributes the shares of our managed investment companies separate accounts is a broker/dealer registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and is a member of, and is subject to regulation by, the NASD, and is subject to various state laws. The registered representatives of our broker/dealer subsidiary and of other broker/dealers who distribute our securities products are regulated by the SEC and NASD and are further subject to applicable state laws. We cannot predict the effect that any proposed or future legislation or rule making by the SEC, NASD or the states will have on our financial condition or operational flexibility. We face competition from companies having greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength. See “Item 1. Business — Ratings and Competition” for information regarding risks relating to competition. Our business is highly dependent on our relationships with Farm Bureau organizations and would be adversely affected if those relationships became impaired. Farm Bureau Life’s business relies significantly upon the maintenance of our right to use the “Farm Bureau” and “FB” trade names and related trademarks and service marks which are controlled by the American Farm Bureau. See discussion under “Business – Marketing and Distribution – Affiliation with Farm Bureau” for information regarding this relationship and circumstances under which our access to the Farm Bureau membership base and use of the “Farm Bureau” and “FB” designations could be terminated. We believe our relationship with the Farm Bureau provides a number of advantages. Farm Bureau organizations in our current territory tend to be well known and long established, have active memberships and provide a number of member benefits other than financial services. The strength of these organizations provides enhanced prestige and brand awareness for our products and increased access to Farm Bureau members. The loss of the right to use these designations in a key state or states could have a material adverse effect upon operating results. Our business and operations are interrelated to a degree with that of the American Farm Bureau, its affiliates, and state Farm Bureaus. The overlap of the business, including service of certain common executive officers and directors of the Company and the state Farm Bureau federations, may give rise to conflicts of interest among these parties. Conflicts could arise, for example, with respect to business dealings among the parties, the use of a common agency force, the sharing of employees, space and other services and facilities under intercompany agreements, and the allocation of business opportunities between them. Additional conflicts of interest could arise due to the fact that the presidents of several of the state Farm Bureau federations, who serve as directors elected by Class B stockholders pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, are elected as presidents by members of Farm Bureau 23 Table of Contents organizations, many of whom are also purchasers of our products. Conflicts of interest could also arise between the Company and the various state Farm Bureau federations in our life-only states, some of whose presidents serve as directors of the Company, and which control their state affiliated property-casualty insurance company, with respect to the use of the common agency force. We have adopted a conflict of interest policy which requires a director to disclose to the Board of Directors and any appropriate committee of the Board, the existence of any transaction or proposed transaction in which the Director has a direct or indirect interest, and the material facts relating thereto. In addition, a majority of our directors are independent. We assumed a significant amount of closed block business through coinsurance agreements and have only a limited ability to manage this business. We have assumed through coinsurance agreements a substantial block of annuity business written by American Equity and certain traditional life, universal life and annuity business written by EMCNL. Our ability to manage the products covered by the coinsurance arrangements is limited and we can make no assurances that our coinsurance counterparties will make decisions regarding the operations of the business covered by the coinsurance agreements in the same manner that we would or in a manner that would have a positive impact on the business covered by the coinsurance arrangements. In addition, we rely on American Equity and EMCNL to supply us with accurate financial and accounting data relating to the business coinsured. Our reinsurance program involves risks because we remain liable with respect to the liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them. We reinsure a portion of our life insurance exposure with unaffiliated insurance companies under traditional indemnity reinsurance agreements. New sales of participating whole life and universal life products are reinsured above prescribed limits and do not require the reinsurer’s prior approval within certain guidelines. New sales of term life products are reinsured on a first dollar quota share basis and do not require the reinsurer’s prior approval within certain guidelines. Generally, we enter into indemnity reinsurance arrangements to assist in diversifying our risks and to limit our maximum loss on risks that exceed our policy retention limits. Our maximum retention limit on an insured life ranges up to $1.1 million depending upon when the policy was issued. Indemnity reinsurance does not fully discharge our obligation to pay claims on the reinsured business. As the ceding insurer, we remain responsible for policy claims to the extent the reinsurer fails to pay claims. Should any reinsurer fail to meet the obligations assumed under such reinsurance, we remain liable for these liabilities, and payment of these obligations could result in losses. To limit the possibility of such losses, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentrations of credit risk. We may experience volatility in net income due to accounting standards for derivatives. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 133, as amended, derivative instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) not designated as hedges are recognized in the balance sheet at their fair values and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings. This impacts the items of revenue and expense we report in four ways. Ÿ We must mark to market the purchased call options we use to fund the index credits on our index annuities based upon quoted market prices from related counterparties. We record the change in fair value of these options as a component of our revenues. Included within the change in fair value of the options is an element reflecting the time value of the options, which initially is their purchase cost declining to zero at the end of their lives. The change in the difference between fair value and remaining option cost at beginning and end of year totaled $0.5 million in 2005, $7.8 million in 2004 and $15.6 million in 2003. Ÿ Under Statement No. 133, the future annual index credits on our index annuities are treated as a “series of embedded derivatives” over the expected life of the applicable contracts. We are required to estimate the fair value of these embedded derivatives. Our estimates of the fair value of these embedded derivatives are based on assumptions related to underlying policy terms (including annual cap rates, participation rates, asset fees and minimum guarantees), index values, notional amounts, strike prices and expected lives of the contracts. The change in fair value of embedded derivatives increases with increases in volatility in the 24 Table of Contents indices and changes in interest rates. The change in fair value of the embedded derivatives will not correspond to the change in fair value of the purchased call options because the purchased options are one or two-year options while the options embedded in the index annuities cover the expected lives of the contracts which typically exceed 10 years. Changes in the value of the embedded derivatives included in the index annuity contracts totaled $4.9 million in 2005, $2.4 million in 2004 and $14.2 million in 2003. Ÿ We adjust the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements to reflect the impact of the two items discussed above. Ÿ Our earnings are also affected by the changes in the value of the embedded derivatives in convertible fixed maturity securities, modified coinsurance contracts and when-issued securities. Changes in the value of these embedded derivatives totaled ($0.5) million in 2005, $0.4 million in 2004 and $0.3 million in 2003. The application of Statement No. 133 in future periods to our index annuity business may cause volatility in our reported net income. We face risks relating to litigation, including the costs of such litigation, management distraction and the potential for damage awards, which may adversely impact our business. We are occasionally involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. In addition, state regulatory bodies, such as state insurance departments, the SEC, the NASD, the Department of Labor, and other regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. Companies in the life insurance and annuity business have faced litigation, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper product design, improper sales practices and similar claims. While we are not a party to any lawsuit that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that such litigation, or any future litigation, will not have such an effect, whether financially, through distraction of our management or otherwise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 