Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks that could cause actual operating and financial results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements, including the risks described below and the risks identified in other documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or investments, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based to a large extent on the selective acquisition, development and investment in rail properties, both in new regions and in regions in which we currently operate. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities; • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; • our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, the market price for our Class A Common Stock may be adversely affected. We may need additional capital to fund our acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to forego potential acquisitions, which would impair the execution of our growth strategy. Since 1996, we have acquired interests in 42 railroads, the majority of which were for cash. As of December 31, 2006, we had undrawn revolver capacity of $224.8 million and $154.2 million of cash and cash equivalents available for acquisitions or other activities, net of approximately $86.0 million of taxes payable to the Australian government in 2007 related to the ARG Sale. We intend to continue to review acquisition candidates and potential purchases of railroad assets and to attempt to acquire companies and assets that meet our investment criteria. We expect that, as in the past, we will pay cash for some or all of the purchase price of any acquisitions or purchases that we make. Depending on the number of acquisitions or purchases and the prices thereof, we may not generate enough cash from operations to pay for the acquisitions or purchases. We may, therefore, need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our acquisitions. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions and costs on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to forego potential acquisitions, which could impair the execution of our growth strategy. Our inability to integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions. Acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We may not be able to manage or integrate the acquired 14 Table of Contents companies or businesses successfully. The process of combining acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; • integrating employees of rail lines acquired from Class I railroads, governments or other entities into our regional railroad culture; • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. The expected revenue enhancements and cost savings are based on analyses completed by members of our management. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served, operating costs and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Many of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of stock of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from or compensate us for, actual liabilities. In connection with our GP Railroads and Rail Partners acquisitions, most of the representations made by the sellers, other than certain representations related to fundamental matters, such as ownership of capital stock, have expired, in the case of GP, or will expire on or before June 2008, in the case of Rail Partners. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Because we depend on Class I railroads and other connecting carriers for a majority of our operations, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with these carriers deteriorate. The railroad industry in the U.S. and Canada is dominated by seven Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. In 2006, approximately 82% of our total carloads were interchanged with Class I carriers. A decision by any of these Class I carriers to use alternate modes of transportation, such as motor carriers, or to cease certain freight movements, could have a material adverse effect on our operating 15 Table of Contents results, financial condition and liquidity. The quantitative impact of such a decision would depend on which Class I carrier made such a decision and which of our routes and freight movements were affected. Our ability to provide rail service to customers in the U.S. and Canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, revenue divisions, fuel surcharges, car supply, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations of or service provided by, those connecting carriers or in our relationship with those connecting carriers, would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Class I carriers also have traditionally been significant sources of business for us, as well as sources of potential acquisition candidates as they divest branch lines to smaller rail operators. We lease several railroads from Class I carriers under long-term lease arrangements, which collectively accounted for approximately 10% of our 2006 revenues. In addition, we own several railroads that also lease portions of the track or right of way upon which they operate from Class I railroads. Failure of our railroads to comply with the terms of these leases and agreements in all material respects could result in the loss of operating rights with respect to those rail properties, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Because we depend on Class I carriers for our U.S. and Canadian operations, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with those carriers deteriorate. Of our 2006 Mexican revenues, approximately 60% originated and terminated on FCCM’s railroad, while the remaining approximately 40% of revenue depended on FCCM’s relationship with Ferrosur S.A. de C.V. (Ferrosur), the connecting carrier. To the extent that we experience service or other commercial disruptions with Ferrosur, our ability to serve existing customers and expand our business will suffer. In November 2005, Grupo Mexico, the majority owner of Ferrocarril Mexicano S.A. de C.V. (Ferromex), which is one of the largest railroads in Mexico and principally operates in the northern and western parts of Mexico, announced that it intended to acquire Ferrosur. The transaction is facing a legal challenge by the Mexican Commission on Competition, which rejected a similar transaction in 2002. In addition, Kansas City Southern de Mexico, which operates between Ferromex and Ferrosur and in the north eastern part of Mexico, has commenced legal proceedings to prevent the transaction from closing. We are still evaluating the potential commercial impact of this transaction on FCCM, which may result in increased costs to FCCM or limitations on FCCM’s ability to access traffic originating or terminating on KCS-Mexico’s network. For additional information on our Mexico Operations, see the discussion under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Mexico.” On January 26, 2007, the STB issued a final rule on fuel surcharges that may adversely affect our revenues. On January 26, 2007, the STB issued final rules governing fuel surcharges that require freight railroads to change the methodologies used to impose fuel surcharges on shippers. The final rule provides that computing fuel surcharges as a percentage of the base rate for transportation is an unreasonable practice because it does not account for factors (such as mileage and weight) that correlate more closely with the amount of fuel actually consumed. In addition, the final rule prohibits railroads from applying to the same movement both a fuel surcharge and a rate increase based on a cost index that includes a fuel cost component. The new rule does not apply to exempt traffic or traffic moving under contract. Freight railroads have until April 26, 2007, to modify their fuel surcharge practices accordingly. In the United States and Canada, through our contractual relationships with certain Class I railroads, we are partially compensated for increases in fuel costs through fuel surcharges. The new rule may reduce the fuel surcharges shared with us by Class I railroads, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations are dependent on our ability to obtain railcars and locomotives from other providers. In 2006, approximately 66% of our railcars were leased. If the number of available railcars is insufficient or if the cost of obtaining these railcars increases, we might not be able to obtain replacement railcars on favorable terms, or at all, and shippers may seek alternate forms of transportation. In addition, in some cases we use third-party locomotives to provide transportation services to our customers. Without these third-party locomotives, we would need to invest additional capital in locomotives. 16 Table of Contents We face competition from numerous sources, including those relating to geography, substitute products, other types of transportation and other rail operators. Each of our railroads is typically the only rail carrier directly serving our customers. Our railroads, however, compete directly with other modes of transportation, principally motor carriers and, on some routes, ship, barge and pipeline operators. Transportation providers such as motor carriers and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, while we must build and maintain our network. If the scope and quality of these alternative methods of transportation are materially increased or if legislation is passed providing materially greater opportunity for motor carriers with respect to size or weight restrictions, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are also subject to geographic and product competition. For example, a customer could shift production to a region where we do not have operations or could substitute one commodity for another commodity that is not transported by rail. In either case, we would lose a source of revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The extent of this competition varies significantly among our railroads. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged, the relative costs of substitutable products and the transit time required. In addition, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the service provided. Because approximately 82% of our carloads involve interchange with another carrier, we have only limited control over the total price, transit time or quality of such service. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality of these alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which we operate or legislation granting materially greater latitude for other modes of transportation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of competition on our business, since not only each customer, but also each customer location and each product shipped from such location is subject to different types of competition. We are subject to significant governmental regulation of our railroad operations. The failure to comply with governmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to governmental regulation with respect to our railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, security, labor, environmental and other matters by a significant number of federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In the U.S., these agencies include the STB, the FRA, federal agencies (including the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Transportation) and state departments of transportation. In Australia, we are subject to both Commonwealth and state regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, governments may change the regulatory framework within which we operate without providing us with any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on our operating results, financial condition or liquidity. Also, some of the regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations, and we may not continue to be able to do so. We could incur significant costs for violations of or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Our railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials and cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. We may incur environmental liability from conditions or practices at properties previously owned or operated by us, properties leased by us and other properties owned by third parties, (for example, properties at which hazardous substances or wastes for which we are responsible have been treated, stored, 17 Table of Contents spilled or disposed), as well as at properties currently owned by us. Under some environmental statutes, such liability may be without regard to whether we were at fault and may also be “joint and several,” whereby we are responsible for all the liability at issue even though we (or the entity that gives rise to our liability) may be only one of a number of entities whose conduct contributed to the liability. Environmental liabilities may arise from claims asserted by owners or occupants of affected properties or other third parties affected by environmental conditions (for example, contractors and current or former employees) seeking to recover in connection with alleged damages to their property or with personal injury or death, as well as by governmental authorities seeking to remedy environmental conditions or to enforce environmental obligations. Environmental requirements and liabilities could obligate us to incur significant costs, including significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States, Mexico, Australia, Canada and Bolivia. We are party to 37 contracts with national labor organizations. We are currently engaged in negotiations with respect to five of those agreements. We have also entered into employee bargaining agreements with an additional 71 employees who represent themselves. GWA has a collective enterprise bargaining agreement covering the majority of its employees. Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which, in either case, could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are also subject to the risk of the unionization of our non-unionized employees, which could result in higher employee compensation and restrictive working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. In addition, work interruptions may be threatened, which could cause customers to seek other transportation alternatives, with a corresponding adverse financial impact. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers that possess the ability to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities. The operation and maintenance of our equipment and facilities involve complex and specialized processes and often must be performed in harsh conditions, resulting in a high employee turnover rate when compared to many other industries. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers. Since 2004, our annual average number of employees has increased 28.4% from 2,038 to 2,617 for 2006. Within the next five years, we estimate approximately 12% of the current workforce will become eligible for retirement. Approximately three-fourths of these workers hold key operating positions, such as conductors, engineers and mechanics. In addition, the demand for workers with these types of skills has increased, especially from Class I railroads, which can usually offer higher wages and better benefits. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. As a common carrier by rail, we are required to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury and property damage costs and compromise critical parts of our railroads. Legislation introduced in Congress in 18 Table of Contents early 2005 would give federal regulators increased authority to conduct investigations and levy substantial fines and penalties in connection with railroad accidents. Federal regulators also would be required to prescribe new regulations governing railroads’ transportation of hazardous materials. If enacted, such legislation and regulations could impose significant additional costs on railroads. Additionally, regulations adopted by the Department of Transportation and the Department of Homeland Security could significantly increase the costs associated with moving hazardous materials on our railroads. Further, certain local governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving by rail within their borders. Some legislators have contemplated pre-notification requirements for hazardous materials shipments. If promulgated, such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments, with the potential for significant additional costs. Increases in our costs could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We have obtained for each of our railroads insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. On certain of the rail lines over which we operate, freight trains are commingled with passenger trains. Unexpected or catastrophic circumstances such as accidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials could cause our liability to exceed our insurance limits. Insurance is available from only a very limited number of insurers, and we may not be able to obtain insurance protection at our current levels or obtain it on terms acceptable to us. In addition, subsequent adverse events directly and indirectly applicable to us may result in additional increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self insured retentions and could result in limitations to the coverage under our existing policies. The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Rising fuel costs could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses. Fuel costs for fuel used in operations were 10.4% and 12.2% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced by factors beyond our control, such as international political and economic circumstances. In the United States and Canada, through certain of our contractual relationships with certain Class I railroads, we are partially compensated for increases in fuel costs through fuel surcharges. If Class I railroads change their policies regarding fuel surcharges, if diesel fuel prices increase dramatically or if a fuel supply shortage were to arise from production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, these events could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The expiration of the short line tax credit on January 1, 2008, could materially adversely affect our effective tax rate. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (P. L. 108-357) was signed into law. The Act provides a tax credit for Class II and Class III railroads against their federal income tax based on qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (the “Short Line Tax Credit”). Qualified expenditures include amounts incurred for maintaining track, including roadbed, bridges, and related track structures owned or leased by a Class II or III railroad. The credit is equal to 50% of the qualified expenditures, subject to an annual limitation of $3,500 multiplied by the number of miles of railroad track owned or leased by the Class II or Class III railroad as of the end of their tax year. The Short Line Tax Credit is applicable to tax years beginning after December 31, 2004, and before January 1, 2008, which includes calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007. In 2006 and 2005, the Short Line Tax Credit lowered our effective tax rate by 4.8% and 9.0%, respectively. If the Short Line Tax Credit is not extended and expires, the loss of the credit could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and our reported earnings per share. 19 Table of Contents The loss of important customers or contracts may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations served more than 920 customers in 2006. Freight revenue from our 10 largest freight revenue customers accounted for approximately 24% of our revenues in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, four of our 10 largest customers operated in the paper and forest products industry. In 2006, our largest freight revenue customer was a company in the paper and forest products industry, freight revenue from which accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues in 2006. We typically handle freight pursuant to transportation contracts between us, our connecting carriers and the customer. These contracts are in accordance with industry norms and vary in duration. These contracts establish price or, in the case of longer term contracts, a methodology for determining price, but do not typically obligate the customer to move any particular volume and are not typically linked to the prices of the commodities being shipped. In addition, GWA’s largest freight customer, AWB Limited (AWB), is the subject of a government investigation and may lose its exclusive exporter status. If AWB loses its sole exporter status, under certain circumstances, it has the right to re-negotiate the terms of the contracts with GWA, which could affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Substantial reduction in business with or loss of important customers or contracts could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our results of operations are susceptible to downturns in the general economy. In any given year, we, like other railroads, are susceptible to changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight we transport. In addition, many of the goods and commodities carried by us experience cyclicality in their demand. Our results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclicality, and because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations the impact could be material. Should an economic slowdown or recession occur in the countries in which we operate, the volume of rail shipments carried by us is likely to be affected. Our results of operations are susceptible to severe weather conditions and other natural occurrences. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including floods, fires, hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes and other natural occurrences. For example: • Mexico’s revenues were reduced in 2006 and 2005 as a result of the impact of Hurricane Stan. • Our minerals and stone revenues, which include salt, may be reduced by mild winters in the northeastern United States, which lessens demand for road salt. • Our coal, coke and ores revenue may be reduced by mild winters in the United States, which lessens demand for coal. • GWA’s revenues are expected to be reduced in 2007 as a result of the impact of drought conditions on the South Australia grain harvest in 2006. Bad weather and natural disasters, such as blizzards in eastern Canada and the northeastern United States and hurricanes in Mexico and the southeastern United States, could cause a shutdown or substantial disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, GWA derives a significant portion of its rail freight revenues from shipments of grain. For the year ended December 31, 2006, grain shipments generated approximately 24% of GWA’s operating revenues. A decrease in grain shipments as a result of adverse weather or other negative agricultural conditions could have a material adverse effect on GWA’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if a material adverse weather or other condition does not directly affect our operations, it can impact the operations of our customers or connecting carriers. Such weather conditions could cause our customers or connecting carriers to reduce or suspend their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our 20 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, our expenses could be adversely impacted by weather, including, for example, higher track maintenance and overtime costs in the winter in our New York/Pennsylvania and Canada Regions or possible track repairs related to washouts in Mexico during its rainy season. Certain of our capital projects may be impacted by our relationships with government entities. Certain of our existing capital projects are and certain of our future capital projects may be, at least partially dependent on our ability to obtain government funding. Within the United States, during 2006, we obtained funds for 27 separate projects, which were partially funded by federal, state and municipal agencies. These funds represented approximately 9% of our total capital expenditures during 2006. Government funding for our projects is limited, and there is no guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate future funding availability. In addition, competition for government funding from other short line railroads, Class I railroads and other companies is significant, and the receipt of government funds is often contingent on the acceptance of contractual obligations that may not be strictly profit maximizing. In certain jurisdictions, the acceptance of government funds may impose additional legal obligations on our operations, such as compliance with prevailing wage requirements. Our credit facilities contain numerous covenants that impose certain restrictions on the way we operate our business. Our credit facilities contain numerous covenants that impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens on our assets; • make certain types of investments; • repurchase shares or pay dividends; • make expenditures for capital projects; • merge or consolidate with others; • make asset acquisitions other than in the ordinary course of business; • dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Our credit facilities also contain financial covenants that require us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Our failure to comply with the obligations in our credit facilities could result in events of default under the credit facilities, which, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our indebtedness, allowing our senior lenders to foreclose on our assets. Acts of terrorism or anti-terrorism measures may adversely affect us. Our rail lines, port operations and other facilities and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials that we are required to transport under federal law as a common carrier, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack or other similar event could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulatory measures designed to control terrorism could impose substantial costs upon us and could result in impairment to our service, which could also adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, freight loss and other property damage and other matters. For example, U.S. job-related personal injury and occupational claims are subject to the Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA), which is applicable only to railroads. FELA’s fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker’s compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in actual costs being very different from the liability recorded. Any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident involving any or all of freight loss or property damage, personal injury and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity to the extent not covered by insurance. We have obtained commercial insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages. Specified levels of risk are retained by us. Insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. ADDITIONAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. Some of our significant subsidiaries transact business in foreign countries, namely in Australia, Canada and Mexico, and we have an equity investment in Bolivia. In addition, we may consider acquisitions or other investments in other foreign countries in the future. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include: • adverse renegotiation or modification of existing agreements or arrangements with governmental authorities; • adverse changes or greater volatility in the economies of those countries; • adverse effects of currency exchange controls; • adverse currency movements that make goods produced in those countries that are destined for export markets less competitive; • adverse changes to the regulatory environment of those countries; • adverse changes to the tax laws and regulations of those countries; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • the nationalization of the businesses that we operate, such as threatened nationalization in Bolivia; • the actual or perceived failure by us to fulfill commitments under concession agreements; • the potential instability of foreign governments, including from domestic insurgency; and • the challenge of managing a culturally and geographically diverse operation. We may incur additional losses associated with the damage to our Mexican railroad caused by Hurricane Stan. In October 2005, our Mexican railroad operation, FCCM was struck by Hurricane Stan with the most severe impact concentrated in the State of Chiapas between the town of Tonalá and the Guatemalan border. Approximately 70 bridges were damaged or destroyed, and various segments of track were washed out, rendering portions of the rail line inoperable absent reconstruction. As of September 30, 2006, the government had not committed adequate resources to fund the reconstruction project, and we did not intend to fund the project ourselves. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash charge of $33.1 million pre-tax ($34.1 million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2006, reflecting the write-down of non-current assets and related effects of FCCM. As of December 31, 2006, FCCM’s remaining $19.6 million of assets consisted of approximately $6.7 million of non-current assets, 22 Table of Contents primarily locomotives and freight cars, and approximately $12.8 million of current assets, primarily receivables and inventory. We are uncertain as to whether sufficient funds will be available from the Mexican government to fund the reconstruction of the damaged rail line. In addition, we are obligated under a guarantee arrangement of $7.0 million in the event that our Mexican subsidiary, GW Servicios S.A., is unable to fund future debt payments and its lenders accelerate the outstanding debt, $13.3 million as of December 31, 2006, and demand immediate payment under the guarantee. We expect to continue to incur operating losses from the Mexican business and may record additional charges going forward, which could affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. For additional information on our Mexican operations, see the discussion under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Mexico.” Because some of our significant subsidiaries and affiliates transact business in foreign currencies and because a significant portion of our net income comes from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, future exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect us and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations in Australia, Canada and Mexico accounted for 9.7%, 11.6% and 5.9% of consolidated operating revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006. The results of operations of our foreign entities are reported in the local currency—the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso—and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, any appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar can impact our results of operations. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. For instance, in the year ended December 31, 2006, the Canadian dollar appreciated 6.8% relative to the U.S. dollar. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively manage our exchange rate risks, and the volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Failure to meet concession commitments with respect to operations of our rail lines could result in the loss of our investment and a related loss of revenues. We have entered into long-term concession and/or lease agreements with governmental authorities in Mexico, Bolivia and South Australia. These concession and lease agreements are subject to a number of conditions, including those relating to the maintenance of certain standards with respect to safety, service, price and the environment. These concession and lease agreements also typically carry with them a commitment to maintain the condition of the railroad and to make a certain level of capital expenditures. Our failure to meet these commitments under the long-term concession and lease agreements could result in the loss of those concession or lease agreements. The loss of any concession or lease agreement could result in the loss of our entire investment relating to that concession or lease agreement and the related revenues and income. Australia’s open access regime could lead to additional competition for GWA’s business and decreased revenues and profit margins. Australia’s open access regime could lead to additional competition for GWA’s business, which could result in decreased revenues and profit margins. The legislative and regulatory framework in Australia allows third-party rail operators to gain access to GWA’s railway infrastructure and in turn governs GWA’s access to track owned by others. Access charges are paid for access onto the track of other companies, and access charges under state and federal regimes continue to evolve because privatization of railways in Australia is recent. Where GWA 23 Table of Contents pays access fees to others, if those fees were increased, GWA’s operating margins could be negatively affected. In addition, if the federal government or respective state regulators were to alter a regulatory regime or determine that access fees charged to current or prospective third-party rail freight operators by GWA did not meet competitive standards, then GWA’s income from those fees could be negatively affected. When GWA operates over track networks owned by others, including Commonwealth-owned and State-owned networks, the owners of the network rather than the operators are responsible for scheduling the use of the tracks as well as for determining the amount and timing of the expenditures necessary to maintain the network in satisfactory condition. Therefore, in areas where GWA operates over tracks owned by others, it is subject to train scheduling set by the owners as well as the risk that the network will not be adequately maintained. Either risk could affect GWA. GWA is subject to several contractual restrictions on its ability to compete. GWA is subject to (a) a five-year non-compete in the State of Western Australia, the Melbourne to Adelaide corridor and certain areas within the State of New South Wales historically served by ARG; (b) a right of first refusal for the benefit of Queensland Rail on the sale of (i) GWA or a majority of the ownership of GWA, (ii) a number of high horse-power locomotives and intermodal wagons owned or operated by GWA and (iii) assets of GWA’s yard and facilities at Port Augusta; and (c) a restriction on hiring of ARG employees who remain employed by ARG after the closing. These contractual restrictions may place limits on our ability to grow GWA’s business, which could have a material adverse effect on GWA’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 