Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks that could cause actual operating and financial results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements, including the risks described below and the risks that may be identified in future documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS Adverse global macroeconomic and business conditions could negatively impact our business. The global economy, which experienced a significant downturn starting in late 2008, including widespread recessionary conditions, high levels of unemployment, significant distress of global financial institutions, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, began to improve in 2010. However, while some economic indicators trended positively, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during 2010 has been uneven and uncertainty remains over the stability of the recovery. There can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be broad based and sustainable, or that they will enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. In addition, it is difficult to determine how the general macroeconomic and business conditions will impact our customers, our suppliers and our business in general. We are required to assess for potential impairment of non-current assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, including economic circumstances, indicate that the respective asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given the asset intensive nature of our business, weakness in the general economy increases the risk of significant asset impairment charges. Worsening of current macroeconomic and financial conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or investments, then we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based to a large extent on the selective acquisition and development of, and investment in, rail operations, both in new regions and in regions in which we currently operate. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities; • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; • our ability to value acquisition and investment opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with partners; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses effectively. We may need additional capital to fund our acquisitions and investments. If we are unable to obtain this capital at a reasonable cost, then we may forego potential opportunities, which would impair the execution of our growth strategy. Since January 1, 1996, we have acquired interests in 55 railroads, all of which were purchased for cash. As of December 31, 2010, we had $27.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $192.2 million of undrawn revolver capacity available for acquisitions or other activities, subject to maintaining compliance with the covenants under our credit agreement. We intend to continue to review acquisition and investment opportunities 16 Table of Contents and potential purchases of railroad assets and to attempt to acquire companies and assets that meet our investment criteria. As in the past, we expect that we will pay cash for some or all of the purchase price of acquisitions and purchases that we make. In addition, from time to time we may make investments in equipment and assets to support our customers. Depending on the number of acquisitions and investments and funding requirements, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions and costs on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may forego potential acquisitions, which could impair the execution of our growth strategy. Our inability to acquire or integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business. We may not be able to acquire or integrate acquired companies or businesses successfully. Evaluating acquisition targets gives rise to additional costs related to legal, financial, operating and industry due diligence. In addition, acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. Integrating acquired businesses could also result in significant restructuring costs. The process of acquiring businesses may be disruptive to our existing business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; • integrating employees of rail lines acquired from other entities into our regional railroad culture; • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. The expected revenue enhancements and cost savings are based on extensive analyses. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served, operating costs and competitive factors, most of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by unexpected costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Finally, the physical conditions of the assets acquired may not be sufficient to support the operations. Many of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of stock of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company, may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before our acquisition. The due diligence we conduct 17 Table of Contents in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Generally, the representations made by the sellers, other than certain representations related to fundamental matters, such as ownership of capital stock, expire within several years of the closing. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our results of operations and rail structure are susceptible to severe weather conditions and other natural occurrences. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including floods, fires, hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes and other natural occurrences. For example, bad weather and natural disasters, such as blizzards in the Northeastern United States and Canada and hurricanes (or cyclones) in the Southeastern United States and Australia, could cause a shutdown or substantial disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if a material adverse weather or other condition does not directly affect our operations, it can impact the operations of our customers or connecting carriers. In addition: • Our minerals and stone revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the Northeastern United States, which lessen demand for road salt. • Our coal and coke revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the Midwestern United States, which lessen demand for coal. • Our revenues generated by our Australian operations are susceptible to the impact of drought conditions on the South Australian grain harvest and the impact of heavy rains and flooding in the Northern Territory. Furthermore, our expenses could be adversely impacted by such weather conditions, including, for example, higher track maintenance and overtime costs in the winter at our railroads in the Northeastern United States and Canada related to snow removal and mandated work breaks. Such weather conditions could also cause our customers or connecting carriers to reduce or suspend their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to significant governmental regulation of our railroad operations. The failure to comply with governmental regulations or changes to the legislative and regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to governmental regulation with respect to our railroad operations and to a variety of health, safety, security, labor, environmental and other matters by a significant number of federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In the United States, these agencies include the STB, DOT, FRA of the DOT, OSHA, DHS and other federal agencies and state departments of transportation. In Australia, we are subject to both Commonwealth and state regulations. In Canada, we are subject to regulation by the CTA, TC and the regulatory departments of the provincial governments of Quebec and Ontario. In the Netherlands, we are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management, the Transport, Public Works and Water Management Inspectorate and Dutch railways managers, ProRail and Keyrail. See “Part I. Item 1. Business – Regulation” for a discussion of these regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. There are various legislative and regulatory actions being considered in the United States, including legislation proposed in the Senate in January 2011 that would modify the regulatory oversight of the rail industry and various proceedings that have been initiated by the STB related to rail competition. The majority of the actions under consideration and pending are directed at Class I railroads; however, specific initiatives being considered by Congress and the STB could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for our rail 18 Table of Contents services, which could undermine the economic viability of certain of our railroads, as well as threaten the service we are able to provide to our customers. The cost of compliance with the proposed rules and regulations could also be significant. Federal, state and local regulatory authorities may change the regulatory framework without providing us with any recourse for the adverse effects that the changes may have on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution and business relationships with our customers and other railroads. As a result, changes to legislation and the regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our credit agreement and note purchase agreements contain numerous covenants that impose certain restrictions on the way we operate our business. Our credit agreement contains numerous covenants that impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens on our assets; • make certain types of investments; • repurchase shares or pay dividends; • make expenditures for capital projects; • merge or consolidate with others; • make asset acquisitions other than in the ordinary course of business; • dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Our failure to comply with the obligations in our credit agreement could result in an increase in our interest expense and could give rise to events of default under the credit agreement, which, if not cured or waived, could permit lenders to accelerate our indebtedness. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that customers or counterparties, which include government entities related to grants and financial institutions related to derivative transactions, will fail to meet their obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money have defaulted and may continue to default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We have procedures for reviewing our receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties; however, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Certain of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. This information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. As a result, unexpected credit exposures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The loss of important customers or contracts may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations served more than 850 freight customers in 2010. Freight revenues from our 10 largest freight customers accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues in 2010. In 2010, our largest freight customer was a company in the farm and food products industry, total revenues from which accounted for approximately 19 Table of Contents 5% of our total revenues. We typically handle freight pursuant to transportation contracts between us, our connecting carriers and the customer. These contracts are in accordance with industry norms and vary in duration. These contracts establish price or, in the case of longer term contracts, a methodology for determining price, but do not typically obligate the customer to move any particular volume. Freight rates and volumes are not directly linked to the prices of the commodities being shipped. Substantial reduction in business with or loss of important customers or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Because we depend on Class I railroads and other connecting carriers for a majority of our operations, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with these carriers deteriorate. The railroad industry in the United States and Canada is dominated by seven Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. In 2010, approximately 85% of our total carloads in the United States and Canada were interchanged with Class I carriers. A decision by any of these Class I carriers to cease certain freight movements could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The quantitative impact of such a decision would depend on which of our routes and freight movements were affected. In addition, Class I carriers also have traditionally been significant sources of business for us, as well as sources of potential acquisition candidates as they divest branch lines to smaller rail operators. Our ability to provide rail service to customers in the United States and Canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to freight rates, revenue divisions, fuel surcharges, car supply, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations of or service provided by those connecting carriers or in our relationship with those connecting carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are dependent on lease agreements with Class I railroads and other third parties for our operations, strategy and growth. Our rail operations are dependent, in part, on lease agreements with Class I railroads and third parties that allow us to operate over certain segments of track critical to our operations. For instance, we lease several railroads from Class I carriers under long-term lease arrangements, which collectively accounted for approximately 9% of our 2010 total revenues. In addition, we own several railroads that also lease portions of the track or right of way upon which they operate from Class I railroads and other third parties. Our ability to provide comprehensive rail services to our customers on the leased lines depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and extend these lease agreements. Expiration or termination of these leases or failure of our railroads to comply with the terms of these leases could result in the loss of operating rights with respect to those rail properties. We face competition from numerous sources, including those relating to geography, substitute products, other types of transportation and other rail operators. Each of our railroads is typically the only rail carrier directly serving our customers. However, in certain circumstances, including under the open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands, our customers have direct access to other rail carriers. In addition, our railroads also compete directly with other modes of transportation, principally motor carriers and, on some routes, ship, barge and pipeline operators. Transportation providers such as motor carriers and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, while we must build and maintain our network. In addition, competition for our services could increase if other rail operators build new rail lines to access certain of our customers or if legislation is passed that provides materially greater latitude for motor carriers with respect to size or weight restrictions. 20 Table of Contents We are also subject to geographic and product competition. For example, a customer could shift production to a region where we do not have operations or could substitute one commodity for another commodity that is not transported by rail. In either case, we could lose a source of revenues. The extent of this competition varies significantly among our railroads. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged, the relative costs of substitutable products and the transit time required. In addition, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the service provided. Because a significant portion of our carloads in the United States and Canada involve interchange with another carrier, we have only limited control over the total price, transit time or quality of such service. However, changes to the competitive landscape could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. For information on the competition associated with the open access regimes in Australia and Europe, see “Additional Risks Associated with our Foreign Operations.” It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of competition on our business, since not only each customer, but also each customer location and each product shipped from such location is subject to different types of competition. Market and regulatory responses to climate change could adversely affect our operating costs and decrease demand for the commodities we transport. Clean air laws, restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that use commodities that we carry to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle. We could incur significant costs for violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Our railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials and cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. We may incur environmental liability from conditions or practices at properties previously owned or operated by us, properties leased by us and other properties owned by third parties (for example, properties at which hazardous substances or wastes for which we are responsible have been treated, stored, spilled or disposed), as well as at properties currently owned by us. Under some environmental statutes, such liability may be found without regard to whether we were at fault and may also be “joint and several,” whereby we are responsible for all the liability at issue even though we (or the entity that gives rise to our liability) may be only one of a number of entities whose conduct contributed to the liability. Environmental liabilities may arise from claims asserted by owners or occupants of affected properties, other third parties affected by environmental conditions (for example, contractors and current or former employees) seeking to recover in connection with alleged damages to their property or personal injury or death, and/or by governmental authorities seeking to remedy environmental conditions or to enforce environmental 21 Table of Contents obligations. Environmental requirements and liabilities could obligate us to incur significant costs, including significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Exposure to market risks, particularly changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and hedging transactions entered into to mitigate such risks could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are exposed to various market risks, including interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. It is impossible to fully mitigate all such exposure and higher interest rates and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may use various financial instruments to reduce our exposure to certain market risks. While these financial instruments reduce the Company’s exposure to market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the Company’s ability to benefit from lower interest rates or favorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We may be adversely affected by diesel fuel supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets and increases in diesel fuel costs. We consumed 18.5 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2010. Fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. If a severe fuel supply shortage arose from production curtailments, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or otherwise, diesel fuel may not be readily available and may be subject to rationing regulations. In addition, diesel fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses and an increase in diesel fuel costs could have a negative effect on our profitability. Although we receive fuel surcharges and other rate adjustments to offset rising fuel prices, if Class I railroads change their policies regarding fuel surcharges, the compensation we receive for increases in fuel costs may decrease. Costs for fuel used in operations were approximately 9% and 8% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If diesel fuel prices increase dramatically from production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. As a common carrier by rail, we are required to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury, property damage and environmental remediation costs and compromise critical parts of our railroads. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to rail transportation of these commodities. In addition, federal regulators have previously prescribed regulations governing railroads’ transportation of hazardous materials and have the ability to put in place additional regulations. For instance, recently enacted legislation requires pre-notification for hazardous materials shipments. Such legislation and regulations could impose significant additional costs on railroads. Additionally, regulations adopted by the DOT and the DHS could significantly increase the costs associated with moving hazardous materials on our railroads. Further, certain local governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving by rail within their borders. Such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments, with the potential for significant additional costs. Increases in costs associated with the transportation of hazardous materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 22 Table of Contents The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are either not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We have obtained for each of our railroads insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. On certain of the rail lines over which we operate, freight trains are commingled with passenger trains. For instance, in Oregon we operate certain passenger trains for the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon over our Portland & Western Railroad. Unexpected or catastrophic circumstances such as accidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials could cause our liability to exceed expected statutory limits, third-party insurance limits and our insurance limits. Also, insurance is available from only a very limited number of insurers, and we may not be able to obtain insurance protection at our current levels or obtain it on terms acceptable to us. In addition, subsequent adverse events directly and indirectly attributable to us may result in additional increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self-insured retentions and could result in limitations to the coverage under our existing policies. Unless it is extended, the expiration of the short line tax credit on December 31, 2011, will increase our effective tax rate. Since 2005, we have benefited from the effects of the short line tax credit, which is an income tax credit for Class II and Class III railroads to reduce their federal income tax based on qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (the Short Line Tax Credit). Qualified expenditures include amounts incurred for maintaining track, including roadbed, bridges and related track structures owned or leased by a Class II or Class III railroad. The credit is equal to 50% of the qualified expenditures, subject to an annual limitation of $3,500 multiplied by the number of miles of railroad track owned or leased by the Class II or Class III railroad as of the end of their tax year. In 2010 and 2009, the Short Line Tax Credit lowered our effective tax rate by 9.3% and 15.0%, respectively. The most recent extension of the Short Line Tax Credit only extends the credit through December 31, 2011. If the Short Line Tax Credit is not extended for additional tax years, the loss of the credit will increase our effective tax rate and reduce our reported earnings per share. Certain of our capital projects may be impacted by our ability to obtain government funding. Certain of our existing capital projects are, and certain of our future capital projects may be partially or completely funded through government grant programs. During 2010, we obtained government funding for 63 separate projects that were partially funded by United States and Canadian federal, state and municipal agencies. The spending associated with these grant-funded projects represented approximately 37% of our total capital expenditures during 2010. Government funding for projects is limited, and there is no guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate funding availability. In addition, competition for government funding from other short line railroads, Class I railroads and other companies is significant, and the receipt of government funds is often contingent on the acceptance of contractual obligations that may not be strictly profit maximizing. In certain jurisdictions, the acceptance of government funds may impose additional legal obligations on our operations, such as compliance with prevailing wage requirements. If we are unable to obtain adequate government funding, we may have to defer or forgo such capital projects. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States, Australia and Canada. In North America, we are party to 37 contracts with national labor organizations. We are currently engaged in negotiations with respect to 12 of those agreements. We have also entered into employee association agreements with an additional 67 employees who are not represented by a national labor organization. GWA has a collective enterprise bargaining agreement covering the majority of its employees. Our inability to negotiate 23 Table of Contents acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs. To date, we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages. We are also subject to the risk of the unionization of our non-unionized employees. Additional unionization of our workforce could result in higher employee compensation and restrictive working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our success and our growth depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled workers who possess the ability to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities. The operation and maintenance of our equipment and facilities involve complex and specialized processes and often must be performed in harsh conditions, resulting in a high employee turnover rate when compared to many other industries. The challenge of attracting and retaining the necessary workforce is increased by the expected retirement of an aging workforce and significant competition for specialized trades. Within the next five years, we estimate that approximately 19% of the current workforce will become eligible for retirement. Many of these workers hold key operating positions, such as conductors, engineers and mechanics. In addition, the demand for workers with the types of skills we require has increased, especially from Class I railroads, which can usually offer higher wages and better benefits. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If any of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our profit margins could decrease and our growth strategy could be impaired. Our operations are dependent on our ability to obtain rail cars, locomotives and other critical railroad items from suppliers. Due to the capital intensive nature and industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, there are high barriers of entry for potential new suppliers of core railroad items such as rail cars, locomotives and track materials. If the number of available rail cars is insufficient or if the cost of obtaining these rail cars either through lease or purchase increases, we might not be able to obtain rail cars on favorable terms, or at all, and shippers may seek alternate forms of transportation. As of January 1, 2011, according to the AAR, approximately 21% of the North American railcar fleet was in storage. In some cases we use third-party locomotives to provide transportation services to our customers and locomotives may not be available. Without these third-party locomotives, we would need to invest additional capital in locomotives. Even if purchased, there is no guarantee that locomotives would be available for delivery without significant delay. Additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of certain track materials, such as rail and ties. Changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited-supplier markets could result in equipment shortages that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity in a particular year or quarter. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, freight loss, property damage and other matters. For example, United States job-related personal injury claims by our railroad employees are subject to FELA, which is applicable only to railroads. FELA’s fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker’s compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in the actual costs of claims being very different from the liability recorded. 24 Table of Contents Any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving material freight loss or property damage, personal injury and environmental liability that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We may be affected by acts of terrorism or anti-terrorism measures. Our rail lines, port operations and other facilities and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials that we are required to transport under federal law as a common carrier, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack or other similar event could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulatory measures designed to control terrorism could impose substantial costs upon us and could result in impairment to our service, which could also have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. ADDITIONAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. Some of our significant subsidiaries transact business in foreign countries, namely in Australia, Canada and the Netherlands. In addition, we may consider acquisitions or other investments in other foreign countries in the future. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include: • adverse changes or greater volatility in the economies of those countries; • adverse currency movements that make goods produced in those countries that are destined for export markets less competitive; • adverse changes to the regulatory environment or access regimes of those countries; • adverse changes to the tax laws and regulations of those countries; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment, or a decrease in the value of repatriated cash flows; • a decrease in the value of foreign sourced income as a result of exchange rate changes; • the actual or perceived failure by us to fulfill commitments under concession agreements; • the ability to identify and retain qualified local managers; and • the challenge of managing a culturally and geographically diverse operation. Because some of our significant subsidiaries and affiliates transact business in foreign currencies and because a significant portion of our net income comes from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect us and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations in Australia, Canada and the Netherlands accounted for 21.5%, 7.9% and 1.7% of our consolidated operating revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our operations in Australia, Canada and the Netherlands accounted for 30.7%, 6.3% and 1.2% of our long-lived assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The results of operations of our foreign entities are maintained in the local currency (the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro) and then translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, any appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the United States dollar can impact our results of 25 Table of Contents operations. The financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are prepared in the local currency of the respective subsidiary and translated into United States dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the period for balance sheet items and, for the statement of operations, at the average rate for the statement period. The exchange rates between these currencies and the United States dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to manage our exchange rate risks effectively, and the volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in United States dollars, such fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our concession and/or lease agreements in Australia could be cancelled, and there is no guarantee these agreements will be extended beyond their terms. Through our subsidiaries in Australia, we have entered into long-term concession and/or lease agreements with governmental authorities in the Northern Territory and South Australia. Our concession agreement for the Tarcoola to Darwin rail line expires in 2054 and our lease agreement for our South Australia rail lines expires in 2047. These concession and lease agreements are subject to a number of conditions, including those relating to the maintenance of certain standards with respect to service, price and the environment. These concession and lease agreements also typically carry with them a commitment to maintain the condition of the railroad and to make a certain level of capital expenditures, which may require capital expenditures that are in excess of our projections. Our failure to meet these commitments under the long-term concession and lease agreements could result in the termination of those concession or lease agreements. The termination of any concession or lease agreement could result in the loss of our entire investment relating to that concession or lease agreement. Further, the expiration of these agreements and the end of their term would result in the loss of the associated revenues and income. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands could lead to additional competition for rail services and decreased revenues and profit margins. The legislative and regulatory framework in Australia allows third-party rail operators to gain access to our Australian railway infrastructure and also governs our access to track owned by others. The Netherlands also has an open access regime that permits third-party rail operators to compete for RRF’s business. There are limited barriers to entry to preclude a current or prospective rail operator from approaching our customers and seeking to capture their business. The loss of our customers to competitors could result in decreased revenues and profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Changes to the open access regimes in Australia and the Netherlands could have a significant impact on our operations. Access fees paid for our access onto the track of other companies and access fees we charge under state and federal regimes are subject to change. Where we pay access fees to others, if those fees were increased, our operating margins could be negatively affected. In Australia, if the federal government or respective state regulators were to alter the regulatory regime or determine that access fees charged to current or prospective third-party rail freight operators by our Australian railroads did not meet competitive standards, our income from those fees could decline. In addition, when we operate over track networks owned by others, the owners of the networks are responsible for scheduling the use of the tracks as well as for determining the amount and timing of the expenditures necessary to maintain the tracks in satisfactory condition. Therefore, in areas where we operate over tracks owned by others, our operations are subject to train scheduling set by the owners as well as the risk that the network will not be adequately maintained. 26 Table of Contents Revocation of our safety accreditations could result in a loss of revenue and termination of our concession. Our operating subsidiaries in Australia and the Netherlands hold safety accreditations that are required to provide freight rail services. Continued maintenance of our safety accreditation in Australia is a requirement under our concession deeds. These safety accreditations are essential for us to conduct our business and are subject to removal and expiration. Any loss of, failure to maintain or inability to renew, rail safety accreditations necessary to carry on rail operations in any jurisdiction, or any changes in government policy and legal or regulatory oversight, including changes to the rail safety regulatory regime, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational performance and financial results. Changes to the mining tax regime in Australia could have a negative impact on our existing customers and the prospects for new customer initiatives underway. On May 2, 2010, the Australian Government announced its intention to introduce a Resource Super Profits Tax (RSPT). On July 2, 2010, the Australian Government announced that it proposes to replace the RSPT with a new Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT). The MRRT would apply to Australian entities’ iron ore and coal projects after July 2012. In the event that such a tax is implemented, this could result in an increase in operating costs for mining assets based in Australia. This may render certain existing and proposed projects not economically viable and result in mining companies choosing to cancel projects currently planned to meet growing demand, as well as reducing the level of investment in the Australian resources sector. Any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our Australian operations by reducing the volume of commodities mined in Australia for us to transport, as well as by reducing levels of demand for Australian commodities and our transportation of those commodities. Consequently, the introduction of the MRRT could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Australia recognizes a form of native title that reflects the entitlement of indigenous inhabitants to their traditional lands, which could impact our GWA North operations. There are a number of native title claims registered with the National Native Title Tribunal that could give rise to native title rights on discrete parcels of land over which we operate. While no native title claims have been made against lots associated with our business to date, there is a risk that a claim could be made that native title exists. A successful claim could prevent or limit our use of the land or require us to make payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. GWA is subject to several contractual restrictions on its ability to compete. As a result of our June 2006 sale of the Western Australia operations and certain other assets of the Australian Railroad Group Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries (ARG) to Queensland Rail and Babcock & Brown Limited (ARG Sale), GWA is subject to (a) a five-year non-compete (expiring June 2011) in the State of Western Australia, the Melbourne to Adelaide corridor and certain areas within the State of New South Wales historically served by ARG; (b) a right of first refusal for the benefit of Queensland Rail with respect to the sale of (i) GWA or a majority of the ownership of GWA and (ii) a number of high horsepower locomotives and intermodal wagons owned or operated by GWA and (c) a five-year restriction (expiring in June 2011) on hiring of ARG employees who remain employed by ARG after the sale. These contractual restrictions may place limits on our ability to grow GWA’s business or divest of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 27 Table of Contents 