Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the following risks and the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risks described below, and others that we may not anticipate, could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and liquidity. Business RisksOur business could be negatively impacted if our access to funding is reduced.We rely in part on asset-backed securitizations to fund our business operations. The asset-backed securities (“ABS”) market, along with credit markets in general, experienced unprecedented disruptions during the recent economic downturn. Although market conditions have improved since 2009, for a number of years following the recent economic downturn, certain issuers experienced increased risk premiums while there was a relatively lower level of investor demand for certain ABS (particularly those securities backed by subprime collateral). In addition, the risk of volatility surrounding the global economic system and uncertainty surrounding regulatory reforms such as the Dodd-Frank Act continue to create uncertainty around access to the capital markets. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in selling securities in the ABS market. Adverse changes in our ABS program or in the ABS market generally could materially adversely affect our ability to securitize loans on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. This could increase our cost of funding, reduce our margins or cause us to hold assets until investor demand improves. We also depend on bond financings, such as our Senior Secured Notes due 2017 ("Senior Secured Notes"), and various credit facilities, including our portfolio warehouse facilities, to fund our operations and liquidity needs. We cannot guarantee that these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates, on reasonable terms, or at all. As we continue to expand our operations and our volume of loan originations increases, we may require the expansion of our borrowing capacity on our existing credit facilities or the addition of new credit facilities. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit, the financial strength and strategic objectives of the banks that participate in our credit facilities, and the availability of bank liquidity in general. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to avail ourselves of new financing without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments, or the liquidation of certain assets.The degree to which we are leveraged, and to which we may become leveraged, could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, limit our ability to respond to changes in our industry, and place us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors. If continued access to the sources of funding described above is not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, we may have to curtail or suspend certain business operations, including loan origination activities. Downsizing the scale of our business would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and operating results.A reduction in the credit rating of our Senior Secured Notes, or any of our credit facilities, could restrict our access to the capital marketsCredit rating agencies evaluate us, and their ratings of our Senior Secured Notes and creditworthiness are based on a number of factors. These factors include our financial strength and other factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing, which may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results.Our indebtedness and related obligations are significant and the agreements governing them impose restrictions on our business.At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, which includes $283.4 million under portfolio warehouse facilities that are due to expire between 2014 and 2015, depending on the facility. This indebtedness reduces operational flexibility and creates default risks.10Table of ContentsThe agreements that govern our indebtedness (including the indenture governing the Senior Secured Notes) contain, and any agreements that govern future indebtedness may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including, among other things, our ability to:•incur additional indebtedness;•incur liens;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets;•make investments, loans, or advances;•engage in merger and acquisition activity;•pay dividends, redeem capital stock, or make certain other restricted payments or investments;•engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions;•enter into new lines of business; and•enter into transactions with our affiliates.Additionally, the advance rates on our portfolio warehouse facilities may be reduced if our portfolio does not perform as expected, we exceed certain extension limits, term limits, delinquency limits, or fail to meet the required collateral levels. The portfolio warehouse facilities also contain term-out features resulting in final maturities between 12 and 24 months from their expiration dates, depending on the facility.From time to time in the past, we have breached certain of these technical or other restrictions, and have obtained waivers from the applicable lenders in such instances. In a future event of default or breach of covenants, there can be no assurance we will be able to receive such waivers, and our inability to obtain these waivers may result in events of default and cross default under, and the acceleration of, applicable indebtedness, each of which would have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain the levels of funding needed to continue to expand and operate our business. Our ability to obtain certain financings in the future is also restricted by the fixed charge coverage ratio of the debt incurrence test under the indenture relating to the Senior Secured Notes. We do not currently meet the fixed charge coverage ratio test under the indenture, which does not constitute a breach of covenant but will limit our ability to obtain certain financings, including the incurrence of unsecured debt.Our business will be negatively impacted if we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations.Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on indebtedness will depend in part on our cash flows from operations, which are subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we paid $75.0 million in cash for interest charges associated with our debt obligations. We cannot be certain that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operations sufficient to permit us to meet our debt service obligations in the future. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our debt, we may be required to undertake alternative financing plans, such as selling assets, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt, reducing or delaying capital investments, or obtaining additional financing. There can be no assurance that any of these alternatives will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.Changes in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability and risk profileOur profitability is dependent, at least in part, on the difference between the interest rates we earn on our finance receivables (which are fixed) and the interest rates we pay on our borrowings (which may be variable). Thus, when interest rates increase, the overall rates we pay on our borrowings may increase, while the rates we earn on our finance receivables remain the same, potentially reducing our profitability. In addition, rates charged on new customer loan originations may be limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting our ability to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer. Further, increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of vehicles we sell and loans we originate, which would negatively affect our operating results in the absence of mitigating factors. If we were to lose the right to service our portfolio of receivables, we could experience a decrease in collections, which could have a material adverse impact on our businessWe retain the right to service all receivables that we finance, including those pledged as collateral to our portfolio warehouse facilities and those sold to securitization trusts. We are entitled to a fee for our servicing activities, which generates cash flow for operations. Subject to certain conditions, if we experience an event of default under the agreements governing our financing arrangements, we may lose the right to service our receivables. Loss of this right could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. In addition, if we lose our servicing rights, these servicing activities could be transitioned to a third-party who might lack the requisite experience in servicing subprime receivables. As a result, we may experience decreased collections, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and on the value of the collateral securing the Senior Secured Notes and certain of our credit facilities.11Table of ContentsThere is a high degree of risk associated with borrowers with subprime credit. The allowance for credit losses that we have established to cover losses in our loan portfolio may not be sufficient or may need to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the value of the collateral securing the Senior Secured Notes and certain of our credit facilities.Substantially all of the loans that we originate and service are with borrowers with subprime credit. Loans to borrowers with subprime credit have lower collection rates and are subject to higher loss rates than loans to borrowers with prime or near prime credit. Although we have extensive experience in subprime auto lending, there can be no assurance that our collection rates will not decrease and that our loss rates will not increase over time.We maintain an allowance for credit losses to cover losses on an aggregate basis at a level we consider sufficient to cover estimated losses inherent in our portfolio of receivables, though our allowance is not meant to cover life of loan losses. On a quarterly basis we review and may make upward or downward adjustments to the allowance. However, our allowance may not be sufficient to the actual cover losses in our portfolio, and we may need to increase our allowance for reasons related to, among other things, continued economic uncertainty or significant increases in delinquencies or charge-offs. A significant variation in the timing of or increase in credit losses in our portfolio or a substantial increase in our allowance or provision for credit losses would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.In addition, because certain elements of our financings are collateralized by the loans we originate, including the Senior Secured Notes (which are secured, in part, by receivables), other financings secured by receivables, and the financings of special purpose entities that have issued securities secured by receivables, the value of such collateral will be sensitive to the performance of the underlying receivables.Our proprietary credit scoring system may fail to properly quantify the credit risks associated with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.We have developed, and revise from time to time, complex proprietary credit scoring models that use traditional and non-traditional variables to classify our customers into various risk grades that are linked to loan parameters. We cannot guarantee that these credit scoring models will perform as intended in current or future market conditions. In addition, given that our typical customer has limited or no credit history, our models rely on customer-related data provided by third parties (including credit agencies) or obtained from publicly available sources, in addition to any information provided to us by our customers. If data obtained from these sources are inaccurate or volatile, or if any such data or categories of data became unavailable to us, the ability of our credit scoring models to properly assess customer risk could be compromised, or our models could fail altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Our failure to effectively manage our growth, including the risks associated with new products, services or business ventures, could harm our business.We continue to pursue growth opportunities, acquisitions, joint ventures and the introduction of new products and services, including the following: •Our recent acquisition of a majority interest in Inilex, our GPS supplier. •Our recent investment in GO Auto Exchange, LLC, a joint venture with Manheim to create a wholesale auction company focused on independent dealers and the low-end vehicle segments.•The launch in 2013 of Carvana, our new on-line used vehicle sales channel. •The introduction of our Cancel Anytime Lease™, which we began offering as a way to expand our service offerings to meet the expanding needs of our customers. •The unbundling of our VSC, GAP and GPS subscription from the sale of our vehicles, which involves deferral of revenue related to these products that was previously included in the purchase price of our used vehicles. These and other business expansion initiatives could have unintended consequences, including negative impacts to our brand, the diversion of excessive time and attention of personnel away from our core business, and additional strain on our capital resources, information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel, and regulatory compliance systems and personnel. There can be no assurance that these or any other new business ventures, products or services will be successful. When entering into any new business or venture we run the risk of losing our initial investment and incurring operational losses if the venture does not perform according to expectations, which could result in material adverse effects to our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to effectively manage or integrate our expanding operations, (including new dealerships and reconditioning centers) or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to achieve our planned growth or effectively manage our growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.12Table of Contents If our vehicle leasing program underperforms our expectations, or the value of our leasing vehicle fleet declines more than we expect, we could be materially adversely affected.We have a vehicle leasing fleet. When we acquire these vehicles, we make certain assumptions regarding our ability to lease the vehicles to our customers and certain estimates regarding vehicle reliability, remaining useful life and residual value. If we are unable to lease fleet vehicles to our customers, or our customers cancel their leases sooner than we anticipate, our cash flows could be materially impacted. If we fail to accurately predict vehicle reliability, vehicle service costs and useful life, we may need to replace fleet vehicles sooner than anticipated, which could result in unexpected costs and diminished cash flows. If we fail to properly estimate residual values, or deviation from expected residual values occurs due to excessive wear and tear or other factors, our vehicle leasing operations could incur significant losses and have a materially adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.Reliance on third parties to administer our ancillary product offerings and perform certain company functions could adversely affect our business and financial results.We have relationships with third party providers to administer the VSC and GAP products we offer to our customers and we outsource certain collection operations and other activities to foreign companies located outside the contiguous United States. Our dependence on third party service providers may increase our operational complexity, decrease our control over certain functions, and subject us to additional risks, such as inadequate service, work strikes, or other work stoppages in foreign countries where certain outsourced services are located. Further, if our relationships with such third party providers were modified, disrupted, or terminated, we would need to obtain these services from alternative sources. We may be unable to replace these third party providers with a suitable alternative in a timely and efficient manner on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to provide these services effectively using our internal resources. In any such scenario, our market reputation could suffer, and our operating results and financial position could be adversely affected.Adverse macro-economic conditions and their effect on automobile sales may adversely affect our business.Changes in macro or regional U.S. economic conditions may adversely impact the used vehicle industry, and our business. Relevant economic factors include, among other things, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, unemployment levels, the state of the housing market and changes in stock market values. During periods of economic slowdown, these and other factors could increase loss frequency and decrease consumer demand for automobiles as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles. Because our historical focus has been on subprime consumers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions, and losses on loans to our customers could be dramatically impacted by a general economic downturn. The most recent economic downturn adversely impacted the used vehicle industry, including us. Although market conditions have improved and we have since expanded our operations, economic uncertainty and unemployment in the U.S. remain at elevated levels, and should declining economic conditions recur, we would expect a similar recurrence of adverse impacts to our industry, operating results and financial condition.Our operations are geographically concentrated, and a downturn in the economies or markets in which we operate could adversely affect vehicle sales and collections.As of December 31, 2013, we operated our dealerships in 20 states, though approximately 43% of our sales volume and 50% of our servicing portfolio is concentrated in three states: Texas, Florida and North Carolina. Accordingly, our operating results depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets. Adverse economic conditions, natural disasters, or other factors affecting any state or region where high concentrations of our customers reside could adversely affect vehicle sales and collections and materially impact our overall operating results and financial condition.Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and if we are unable to compete, we may experience material adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition.Used vehicle retailing and financing is a highly competitive industry. In addition to “buy-here, pay-here” dealerships, our competition includes publicly and privately owned used car dealers and the banks, finance companies and indirect lenders that purchase their loans. Many of our retail competitors buy and sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets and at competitive prices, which can result in margin pressure due to increased inventory costs and lower retail prices. The financing side of the market is served by banks, captive finance affiliates of automobile manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies that may be much larger and have greater financial resources than are available to us, which may allow them to compete favorably with us. Along with lower operating margins on retail sales, increased competition may cause downward pressure on the interest rates that we charge on finance receivables originated by our dealerships, all of which together could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.13Table of ContentsIf we are unable to obtain sufficient inventory in a cost-effective manner, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely impacted.We require a large number of quality used vehicles for our dealerships, and our ability to manage inventory costs while maintaining affordability for our customers is critical to the success of our business. We acquire most of our used vehicle inventory through auctions, primarily through two auction companies. We also source inventory from wholesalers and fleet owners, such as leasing and rental companies. The number of sources that can supply acceptable quantities of vehicles meeting our quality standards is limited, and we face substantial competition to acquire the vehicles we purchase. Additionally, rising auction prices may lead us to acquire older or higher mileage vehicles, which could cause an increase in reconditioning and warranty costs, both of which would also negatively affect our sales margins and overall profitability. We also rely on logistics in transporting vehicles from auctions to reconditioning facilities and to our dealerships. Our failure to manage this process both internally and through our network of transportation partners, or disruptions in the vehicle transport industry beyond our control, could cause a disruption in inventory supply chain and distribution, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may experience seasonal and other fluctuations in our operating results.Sales of motor vehicles historically have been subject to substantial cyclical variation characterized by periods of oversupply and weak demand. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the first quarter of the calendar year than in the last three quarters of the calendar year. We believe these results are due to seasonal buying patterns driven in part by the timing of income tax refunds, which are a primary source of our customers’ down payments on used vehicle purchases. Our loan performance also has followed a seasonal pattern, with delinquencies and charge-offs being the highest in the second half of the year. A significant portion of our general and administrative expenses, however, do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in revenues. Accordingly, our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our operating results to continue as a result of seasonal patterns. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and our failure to adequately meet such demand, including through inventory re-mixing and product pricing, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The demand for the products we offer may be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences or financial conditions, regulatory restrictions that decrease customer access to particular products, or the availability of alternative or competing products. For example, if customer preferences change and we fail to re-align our inventory mix and ancillary products and services to such preferences, our revenues could decrease significantly and our operations could be harmed. If used vehicle retail prices rise significantly due to supply constraints, consumer demand for used vehicles could decline as customers delay purchases or pursue alternative options. If our pricing models fail to properly calculate retail vehicle prices aligned with market demand our sales and sales margin could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Our reputation is a key aspect of our business, and our business may be affected by how we are viewed in the marketplace.The DriveTime brand represents transparency, value and a customer-centric used vehicle buying experience. The reputation of our brand is critical to our success. If we fail to maintain the high standards on which this reputation is built, or if an event occurs that damages this reputation, it could adversely affect our brand and consumer demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and operating results. Additionally, if we fail to correct or mitigate misinformation or negative information about the vehicles we offer, our customer experience, or any aspect of our brand, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, sales and operating results.Adverse outcomes to current and future litigation against us may adversely impact our financial position, liquidity and operating results. We may be involved in various litigation matters from time to time, which may include product liability claims and other litigation with customers, labor and employment-related lawsuits, environmental claims, class actions, purported class actions, and other actions brought by competitors or governmental authorities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. These actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, reduced demand for our products, and adverse publicity, among other consequences. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including insurance to the extent it is available, to cover such legal actions and claims, and adverse outcomes of such legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. See “Item 3-Legal Proceedings,” for more information.14Table of ContentsA failure of our information systems or any security breach or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our businessOur business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage our pricing strategy and tools, sales, inventory, and service efforts, the preparation of our consolidated financial and operating data, consumer financing, and loan servicing and collections. Our information systems also collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others. Despite the security measures and business controls we have in place (which include, among other things, backup systems, disaster recovery measures, and the adoption of procedures in compliance with the Red Flags Rule promulgated under the Fair Credit Reporting Act) our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, employee theft or misuse, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, malfunction, or other similar events. Some threats are out of our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Others may inadvertently occur when we integrate systems or migrate data to our servers following an acquisition or in connection with periodic hardware or software upgrades. Regardless, any security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us directly or by our third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business, or otherwise affect our operating results. If all or some portion of our employees elect to collectively bargain or join a union, these actions could adversely affect our operations.As of December 31, 2013, none of our employees were represented by a labor union. The automotive industry is historically an industry in which there is a high degree of labor union participation. If all or some portion of our employees elects to join a labor union, we could experience increased operational costs, work stoppages or strikes, and/or barriers to communication between management and employees. These factors could lead to inefficiencies in the operation of the affected facilities or groups and could cause us to experience a material adverse effect.We are dependent on the services of certain key personnel and the loss of their services, or an inability to attract such personnel, could harm our business.Our continued success depends in part on the continued employment of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Raymond C. Fidel, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mark G. Sauder, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Jon D. Ehlinger and our Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer, Paul I. Kaplan. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance on any member of our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of the services of any of these key personnel, or our inability to attract new key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. See “Item 10—Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” for more information. Our Executive Chairman and principal shareholder can direct our management and policies through his right to elect our Board of Directors (the "Board") and to control substantially all matters requiring a stockholder vote.Ernest C. Garcia II, our Executive Chairman and principal shareholder, beneficially owns the majority of our outstanding common stock. Certain agreements to which we are a party, including the indenture governing the Senior Secured Notes, the agreements governing our other indebtedness, and our origination agreement with DTAC pursuant to which DTAC purchases all of the auto loan receivables we originate, limit the control Mr. Garcia otherwise could exercise over our business and operations. Mr. Garcia has the power to elect our entire board of directors and determine the terms and outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the amendment of our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Because his interests as an equity holder may conflict with the interests of holders of our Senior Secured Notes, he may cause us to take actions that, in his judgment, could enhance his equity but may be prejudicial to the holders of the Senior Secured Notes.Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of affiliations that our principal shareholder has with Verde Investments, Inc. or other companies with which we have material relationships.Our principal shareholder is also the owner of Verde Investments, Inc. (“Verde”), a company with which we have and have had material leasing and financing relationships. See “Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Future transactions between us and Verde, or other affiliated companies with which we have a material relationship, could give rise to a conflict of interest on the part of our principal shareholder or any of our directors or executive officers. While transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our Board and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, any such conflict of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.15Table of ContentsChanges in accounting policies could adversely affect our reported operating results.We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and operating results because they involve major aspects of our business and require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Materially different amounts could be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. These policies are described in “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Additionally, the U.S. based Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board on several projects to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and those that are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) outside of the U.S. These efforts may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, but not limited to, potential changes in accounting for leases, revenue recognition, and impairment of financial assets. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) may make a determination in the future regarding the incorporation of IFRS into the financial reporting system for companies based in the U.S. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS, or the implementation of these or other converged or new accounting requirements, could adversely affect our reported operating results and financial condition, and cause us to restate prior period reported results under the proposed guidance.Regulatory RisksWe are subject to significant governmental regulation, and if we are found to be in violation of any of the federal, state, or local laws or regulations applicable to us, our business could suffer adverse consequences. The automotive retail and finance industries are subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as dealership and other licensing and registration requirements, and retail financing, debt collection, consumer protection, environmental, health and safety, creditor, wage-hour, anti-discrimination, and other related laws and regulations. During the past several years, governmental authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, financing, and insurance activities involved in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles, and many state attorneys general have been increasingly active in the area of consumer protection. Our violation of these or future requirements, laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against us, which may include, among other things, withheld or delayed approval of business licenses, cease and desist orders against our operations, and suspension or revocation of our existing operating licenses. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenditures to comply with these requirements, laws, and regulations. Despite the significant efforts we make to comply with these laws and regulations, we are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators. There can be no assurance that such activities will not result in material adverse effects on our business.The Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB has and likely will continue to increase our regulatory compliance efforts and associated costs. We are subject to the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which represents a comprehensive overhaul of the rules and regulations governing the financial services industry, including the establishment and operation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has broad regulatory authority over consumer protection matters applicable to entities offering consumer financial services or products, including non-bank commercial companies in the business of extending credit and servicing consumer loans. The CFPB has issued rules allowing it to supervise non-bank “larger participants” in certain markets for consumer financial services and products and may in the future issue rules to supervise non-bank larger participants in the direct and/or indirect auto lending industries, which may include us. For example, in March 2013, the CFPB issued Bulletin 2013-02 highlighting its concern that the practice of automotive dealers being compensated for arranging customer financing through discretionary markup of wholesale rates offered by financial institutions (“dealer markup”) results in a significant risk of pricing disparity in violation of The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”). The CFPB recommended that financial institutions under its jurisdiction take steps to ensure compliance with the ECOA, which may include imposing controls on dealer markup, monitoring and addressing the effects of dealer markup policies, and eliminating dealer discretion to markup buy rates and fairly compensating dealers using a different mechanism. In December 2013, the CFPB and the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), based on a proxy methodology that combines geography-based and name-based probabilities, alleged that certain presumed-minority borrowers who had obtained automobile financing from a national lender were charged higher dealer markups as a result of such lender’s policy and practice of allowing dealer markup. In connection with the investigation, the lender consented to the issuance of a consent order and agreed to pay damages, to implement a compliance plan, and to pay a monetary penalty. 16Table of ContentsThe CFPB’s commencement of regulatory and enforcement activities related to consumer lending activities has and may continue to affect us. On April 12, 2012, the CFPB delivered a Civil Investigative Demand to DTAG requesting that DTAG produce certain documents and information and answer questions relating to certain components of the business of DTAG and its affiliates, which we provided. The CFPB made supplemental requests for information on February 21, 2013 and May 1, 2013, to which we also fully responded. In January 2014, the CFPB notified us that, in accordance with the CFPB’s discretionary NORA process, the CFPB is considering whether to pursue an enforcement action against us based on allegations relating to our collection practices. If such action is brought, the CFPB may seek injunctive and monetary relief. We understand that a NORA notice from the CFPB is intended to ensure that potential subjects of enforcement actions have the opportunity to present their positions to the CFPB before an enforcement action is recommended or commenced. In response to the NORA notice, we made a NORA submission on February 20, 2014, which is a written statement setting forth any reasons of law or policy why we believe the CFPB should not pursue an enforcement action against us. We continue to believe that our practices relating to loan collections are lawful. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that the CFPB will not ultimately take legal action against us or that the outcome of any such action, if brought, will not have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results, or financial condition.The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial industry participants of all types, including third parties that we deal with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies, and investors. It also provided the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) with new and expanded authority regarding automotive dealers, and the FTC recently announced an enforcement initiative relating to the advertising practices of automotive dealers. We believe that the implementing regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act likely will continue to have the effect of increasing the compliance costs of operating our business and further impact our operating environment in other substantial and unpredictable ways that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.Changes in laws, regulations, or policies may adversely affect our business.The laws and regulations governing our retail, lending, servicing, debt collection, and insurance activities or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the federal level or in any of the states in which we operate may change at any time and may have an adverse effect on our business. Examples of such changes or potential changes include the following:•Additional regulatory actions and investigations by the CFPB and the DOJ against automotive lenders are likely to occur in the future and, while it is difficult to predict how any such changes might impact us, any adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations resulting from such actions and investigations could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.•We operate in some states that impose limits on the interest rates we can charge on the installment sales contracts we provide to our customers, and new or lower limits may harm our ability to offset increased interest expenses and could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.•Certain states allow us to apply for sales taxes credits to the extent that the related receivable becomes uncollectible. If state laws or the position of state taxing authorities change with respect to these refunds, we could experience a material adverse effect. In this regard, on February 24, 2011, the Nevada Supreme Court ruled against our sales tax refund requests for prior tax years in that state. While only applicable to 2002 and 2003, this ruling could affect our ability to receive or retain refunds in subsequent tax years as well.•Federal and state legislation has been proposed, and enacted in some states, that could broaden restrictions on U.S. companies outsourcing their services to companies outside the U.S. Such restrictions may include tax disincentives, fees or penalties, intellectual property transfer restrictions, mandatory government audit requirements, and new work visa restrictions that could impact collections and other activities that we outsource to companies located outside the U.S. We are unable to predict how these or any other future legislative or regulatory proposals or programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We are subject to environmental laws, regulations, and permits that could impose significant liabilities, costs, and obligations.We are subject to a complex variety of federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and permits relating to the environment and human health and safety. If we violate or fail to comply with, or otherwise incur liability under these laws, regulations, or permits, incur significant costs, including fines and sanctions by regulators, clean up costs, and damages for third-party claims. These environmental requirements, and the enforcement thereof, change frequently, have become more stringent over time, and compliance may necessitate substantial capital expenditures or operating costs. A number of our facilities have a history as commercial operations involving the use of underground storage tanks. Under certain environmental laws, we could be responsible for the costs relating to any contamination at these or any of our, or our 17Table of Contentspredecessors’, current or former owned or operated properties or third-party waste disposal sites, whether or not we were at fault. Such matters also may lead to claims from governmental authorities and other third parties for fines or penalties, natural resource damages, or personal injury or property damage. We cannot assure you that our costs and liabilities relating to environmental matters will not adversely affect our operating results, business, financial condition, reputation, or liquidity.We could suffer material effects of regulatory challenges to certain transactions effected within our related finance company structure.Our treatment of certain intercompany transactions within our related party finance company structure, including the tax treatment of intercompany sales of receivables from DTAG to DTAC could be subjected to review by federal and state tax authorities. We believe that our intercompany transactions are standard within our industry and our interpretation of the applicable tax rules is not meaningfully different from other companies therein. However, tax authorities may challenge our position causing an accelerated tax obligation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 18Table of Contents