ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors The following are some of the factors that the Company’s management believes could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently know to management, or that management currently sees as immaterial, may also harm the Company’s business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The Company depends on government contracts for substantially all of its sales. The Company derived approximately 87.1% of its consolidated net sales from the U.S. Government and its agencies during the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company expects that sales to the U.S. Government will continue to be the primary source of its revenue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of the Company’s relationship with the U.S. Government would significantly reduce the Company’s revenues. In addition, the funding of defense programs also competes with non-defense spending of the U.S. Government. The Company’s business is also highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and the U.S. Government budgets. A shift in Government defense spending to other programs in which the Company is not involved or a reduction in U.S. Government defense spending generally could have severe consequences on the Company’s results of operations. The Company acts as prime contractor or major subcontractor for many different U.S. Government programs. Over its lifetime, a program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Although multiple year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, and could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations. In addition, the termination of a program or failure to commit funds to a prospective program or a program already started could increase the Company’s overall costs of doing business. U.S. Government contracts typically contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government agencies rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including providing the government agency with the ability to unilaterally terminate or reduce the value of and modify some of the terms and conditions of existing contracts, suspend or permanently prohibit the Company from doing business with the U.S. Government or with any specific governmental agency, control and potentially prohibit the export of the Company’s products, and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by the Company. If a U.S. Government agency terminates a contract with the Company for convenience, the Company generally may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If an agency terminates a contract with the Company for default, the Company is denied any recovery and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the agency in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. The Company may receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the agency’s satisfaction, could give the agency the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring the Company’s services under those contracts. 12 In the event that any of the Company’s contracts were to be terminated or adversely modified, there may be significant adverse effects on its revenues, operating costs and income that would not be recoverable. As a U.S. Government contractor, the Company is subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. The Company must comply with and is affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern the Company’s right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of the Company’s contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. These laws and regulations affect how the Company does business with its customers and in some instances, impose added costs on its businesses. These costs might increase in the future, reducing margins, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s businesses could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and information management systems. These audits may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, the Company could incur a material charge to our earnings and reduction on our cash position. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, the Company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, as a U.S. Government contractor, the Company is subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistle-blower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against it. The Company’s revenues will be adversely affected if the Company fails to win competitively awarded contracts or to receive renewal or follow-on contracts. The Company obtains many of its U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. There are no assurances that the Company will continue to win competitively awarded contracts. Renewal and follow-on contracts are important because the Company’s contracts are for fixed terms. These terms vary from shorter than one year to over five years, particularly for contracts with options. The typical term of the Company’s contracts with the U.S. Government is between one and three years. The loss of revenues from the Company’s possible failure to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain renewal 13 or follow-on contracts may be significant because the Company’s U.S. Government contracts account for a substantial portion of its revenues. Cost overruns on the Company’s fixed-price contracts could subject it to losses, decrease its operating margins and adversely affect its future business. During the year ended December 31, 2005, fixed price contract sales comprised 53.1% of Defense segment sales. Under firm fixed price contracts, the Company performs services under a contract at a stipulated price. If the Company fails to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during its performance of fixed price contracts, the Company can incur losses on those contracts because any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by the Company. Under time and materials contracts, the Company is paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, the Company is reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, the Company may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. The Company’s ability to manage costs on each of these contract types may materially and adversely affect its financial condition. Cost overruns also may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Due to the size and nature of many of the Company’s contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for the Company to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that the results could be different and the differences could be material if the Company used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. For additional information regarding the Company’s accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see Critical Accounting Policies above. Other risks associated with U.S. Government contracts may expose the Company’s business to adverse consequences. Like all U.S. Government contractors, the Company is subject to risks associated with uncertain cost factors related to: · scarce technological skills and components; · the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; · the substantial time and effort required for design and development; · design complexity; · rapid obsolescence; and · the potential need for design improvement. 14 Failure to perform by one of the Company’s subcontractors, partners or suppliers could materially and adversely affect the Company’s performance and its ability to obtain future business. Many of the Company’s contracts involve subcontracts or partnerships with other companies upon which the Company relies to perform a portion of the services the Company must provide to its customers. There is a risk that the Company may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, the Company’s failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract or the Company’s hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more of the Company’s subcontractors to satisfactorily provide, on a timely basis, the agreed upon services may materially and adversely impact the Company’s ability to perform its obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could expose the Company to liability and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, in connection with certain contracts, the Company commits to certain performance guarantees. The Company’s ability to perform under these guarantees may in part be dependent on the performance of other parties, including partners and subcontractors. If the Company is unable to meet these performance obligations, the performance guarantees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s product margins and its results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, several suppliers are the Company’s sole source of certain components. If a supplier should cease to deliver such components added cost and manufacturing delays could result, which may affect the Company’s ability to meet customer needs and may have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company derives revenues from international sales and is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. The Company derived approximately 4.8% of its revenues from international sales during the year ended December 31, 2005 and, as a result, is subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: · changes in regulatory requirements that may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States; · domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · delays in placing orders; · the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; · the uncertainty of adequate and available transportation; · the uncertainty of the ability of foreign customers to finance purchases; · uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; · the imposition of tariffs, embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; · the difficulty of managing and operating an enterprise spread over various countries; · compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; and · economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances. 15 While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s operations in the future. The Company may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad and Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Licenses for the export of many of the Company’s products are required from U. S. government agencies in accordance with various statutory authorities, including the Export Administration Act of 1979, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976. The Company can give no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining these necessary licenses in order to conduct business abroad. In the case of certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing these sales. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. The Company operates in highly competitive markets and its future success will depend on its ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance and to compete successfully. The defense industry, in which the Company primarily participates, is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. If the Company does not continue to improve existing product lines and develop new products and technologies, its business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, competitors could introduce new products with greater capabilities, which could also have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business. Accordingly, the Company’s future performance depends on a number of factors, including its ability to: · identify emerging technological trends in target markets; · develop and maintain competitive products; · enhance the Company’s products by adding innovative features that differentiate them from those of competitors; and · develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. The Company believes that, in order to remain competitive in the future, it will need to continue to develop new products, which will require the investment of significant financial resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert the Company’s attention and resources from other projects and the Company cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new technology. Due to the design complexity of the Company’s products, the Company may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for the Company’s products will develop or continue to expand as currently anticipated. The failure of the Company’s technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce revenues and harm the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company cannot be sure that its competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of the Company’s products. In addition, the Company competes primarily for government contracts against many companies that are larger, devote greater resources to research and development and generally have greater financial and other resources. Consequently, these competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of economies of scale and develop new technologies. In order to remain competitive, the Company must keep its capabilities technically advanced and compete on price and value added to its customers. The Company’s ability to compete depends on the effectiveness of its research and development programs, its readiness with respect to facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which the Company 16 competes and its past performance and demonstrated capabilities. The Company’s ability to compete also may be adversely affected by limits on its capital resources and its ability to invest in maintaining and expanding market share. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, its business and prospects will be adversely affected. United Industrial and Detroit Stoker are subject to asbestos related litigation and other liabilities. In addition to asbestos related claims, the Company may face costly litigation. The Company’s financial condition and performance may be affected by pending litigation, including asbestos related claims and environmental matters, and other loss contingencies, and by unanticipated liabilities. The Company is subject to lawsuits, several of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the time, attention and resources of management. In addition, successful claims in excess of any applicable liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. These litigation matters and contingencies are described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. The Company is subject to significant environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s business is subject to a wide range of general and industry specific environmental, health and safety, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in the Company’s business. The Company may incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions. As an owner and operator of real estate, the Company may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from the Company’s properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances on its property and may not be limited to the value of the property. The Company may also be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability, related to facilities or sites to which it has sent hazardous waste materials. In addition, situations may give rise to material environmental liabilities that have not yet been discovered. New environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws, may be enacted that require the Company to make significant expenditures. The Company’s level of returns on pension plan assets and interest rates could affect its earnings and cash flows in future periods. Net income or loss and cash flow may be significantly positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded and required contributions for the Company’s pension plan, which is a cash balance plan. Judgments, assumptions and assessments of uncertainties are required in developing the projected obligations for pension and other post-retirement employee benefits. Changes in assumptions related to the Company’s pension plan can significantly affect its results of operations. 17 The Company depends on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel and its failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm the Company’s business. Due to the specialized nature of the Company’s businesses, future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of its key engineering personnel and executive officers. The Company’s prospects depend upon its ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel. Competition for personnel is intense and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Failure to successfully compete for these personnel could seriously harm the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, which could affect its ability to compete. Protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights is critical to its ability to compete and succeed as a company. The Company owns a large number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as trademark, copyright and semiconductor chip mask work registrations which are necessary and contribute significantly to the preservation of the Company’s competitive position in the market. There can be no assurance that any of these patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In some instances, the Company augmented its technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In the future, the Company may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. The Company enters into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with its employees and non-disclosure agreements with its suppliers and certain customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of its proprietary information. These measures may not be sufficient to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of similar technologies. Moreover, the protection provided to the Company’s intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous as the remedies available under U.S. law. The Company intends to complement its growth strategy through acquisitions, which subject the Company to numerous risks. The Company intends to complement its growth strategy through acquisitions that broaden its product and service offerings, deepen its capabilities and allow entry into new attractive domestic and international markets. Acquisitions may require significant capital resources and divert management’s attention from its existing business. Acquisitions also entail an inherent risk which could subject the Company to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct predating the acquisition of a business that were not known to the Company at the time of the acquisition. The Company may also incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than had been initially anticipated. In addition, acquisitions may create unanticipated tax and accounting problems. A key element of the Company’s acquisition strategy, depending on the type of acquisition, may also include retaining management and key personnel of the acquired business to operate the acquired business for the Company. The Company’s inability to retain these individuals could materially impair the value of an acquired business. The Company’s failure to successfully accomplish future acquisitions or to manage and integrate completed or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurances that the Company: · will identify suitable acquisition candidates; · can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms; · can successfully integrate any acquired business into its operations or successfully manage the operations of any acquired business; or 18 · will be able to retain an acquired company’s significant client relationships, goodwill and key personnel or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. The Company increased its leverage as a result of the sale of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. In connection with the sale of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the Company incurred $120,000,000 of indebtedness. The degree to which the Company is leveraged could adversely affect its ability to obtain further financing or working capital, consummate acquisitions or otherwise pursue strategies and could make the Company more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. The Company’s ability to meet its debt service obligations will be dependent upon its future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting the Company’s operations, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may violate financial covenants under its credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and financial condition. The terms of the credit facility may restrict the Company’s financial and operational flexibility, including its ability to invest in new business opportunities. The Company has a four-year secured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of six banks. The credit facility, which expires in July, 2009, provides the Company with borrowing capacity of $100,000,000, including a $5,000,000 swing line and a $100,000,000 letter of credit sub-facility. The Company intends to use the credit facility to fund future acquisitions, finance capital expenditures, provide working capital, fund letters of credit and for other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $2,441,000 of letters of credit were outstanding under the credit facility. The terms of the credit facility require the Company to comply with certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants, including, among others, the maintenance of certain leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum consolidated tangible net worth ratios, limits on the incurrence of debt and preferred equity, limits on the incurrence of liens, a limit on the making of dividends or distributions, limits on sales of assets and a limit on capital expenditures. If the Company’s future financial performance or operations results in a violation of the covenants under the credit facility, the Company could be required to repay outstanding borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and financial condition. The terms of the credit facility may restrict the Company’s financial and operational flexibility, including its ability to invest in new business opportunities. Changes in stock option accounting rules will adversely impact the Company’s results of operations prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company has historically used an employee stock option program to hire, provide incentive to and retain key employees in a competitive marketplace. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), allows companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for options, which would result in expense recognition for all options or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”), with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income (loss) of using the fair value option expense recognition method. Historically, the Company has elected to apply APB 25 and the disclosure provisions of SFAS 123 and accordingly the Company did not recognize any expense with respect to employee stock options for periods up to and including December 31, 2005. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which requires all companies to measure compensation cost for all share-based payments, including employee stock options, at fair value. The SEC has issued rules which allow companies to implement Statement 123(R) at the beginning of the annual reporting period that begins 19 after June 15, 2005. Consistent with the new rule, the Company will be required to adopt Statement 123(R) in the first quarter of its 2006 fiscal year, and will implement the new standard on a prospective basis. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of Statement 123(R) will have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations, and it is possible that the adoption of this standard may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in future periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Accounting Pronouncements” above. The Company’s charter and bylaws, Delaware law and the indenture for the Company’s 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes contain provisions that could discourage a takeover even if beneficial to shareholders. The Company’s charter and bylaws, in conjunction with Delaware law, contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the Company even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. For example, the Company’s bylaws allow the Board of Directors to expand its size and fill any vacancies without shareholder approval. Furthermore, the Company’s board has the authority to issue preferred stock and to designate the voting rights, dividend rate and privileges of the preferred stock, all of which may be greater than the rights of common shareholders. Additionally, upon a change of control of the Company, the holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may have the right to require the Company or its successor to repurchase the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes at a make-whole premium designed to compensate note holders for the lost option time value of their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase in cash. This could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the Company even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 