ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors The performance of our company is subject to a variety of risks which you should review. Occurrence of these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Current difficult conditions in the financial markets and the economy may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008. The volatility and disruption in the financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence and the risks of increased inflation and unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and severe recession. The fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity, which has affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. In addition, there have been credit downgrade events and an increased probability of default for many fixed income instruments. Equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility. These events and the continuing market upheavals have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on us. Our revenues may decline in such circumstances, the cost of meeting our obligations to our customers may increase, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of a prolonged economic downturn, we could incur additional significant losses in our investment portfolio. The demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment. We also may experience a higher incidence of claims, lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Continuing adverse financial market conditions may significantly affect our liquidity, access to capital and cost of capital. As described in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, our life insurance subsidiaries have historically generated positive cash flow as measured by the degree to which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. While our life insurance subsidiaries have historically generated positive cash flow, a significant increase in policyholder benefits, including withdrawals and surrenders of life insurance and annuity contracts, could require us to sell fixed maturity securities that are currently in an unrealized loss position. Such sales would result in a charge to income and a reduction in capital. At December 31, 2008, we believe the probability we would have to sell investments in an unrealized loss position to meet cash flow needs is remote. See the Financial Condition section in Item 7 for details regarding the unrealized loss position on our fixed maturity securities. Capital requirements depend on factors including accumulated statutory earnings of our life insurance subsidiaries, statutory capital and surplus of our life insurance subsidiaries, the rate of sales growth of our products, aggregate reserve levels and the levels of credit risk and/or interest rate risk in our invested assets. In order to support these capital requirements, we may need to increase or maintain the statutory capital and surplus of our life insurance subsidiaries through additional financings, which could include debt, equity or other transactions. Adverse capital market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. Without sufficient capital, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. We manage the amount of our capital to be consistent with an A indicative ratings level from Standard & Poor’s and A.M. Best. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that we have sufficient capital in the life insurance subsidiaries, combined with capital at the holding company, to meet this rating objective. However, this capital may not be sufficient if significant future losses are incurred and, given the current market conditions, access to additional capital could be limited. The Market Value Adjustment (MVA) feature on certain policies may cause surrenders to increase in an extremely low interest rate environment. The surrender charge amount on our EquiTrust Life independent channel business may be impacted positively or negatively by a market value adjustment feature on these products. This adjustment feature may apply if the withdrawal amount exceeds the free withdrawal provision or the contract is surrendered during the surrender charge period. The adjustment is determined by a mathematical formula which measures changes in the interest rate environment since the contract was issued based on U.S. Treasury rates. This feature provides us interest rate protection when U.S. Treasury interest rates are greater than the rates in effect when a contract is issued and provides a benefit to contract holders when U.S Treasury interest rates are less than the rates in effect when a contract is issued. Market conditions with low U.S. Treasury yields provide an environment where contract holders may be able to surrender with smaller net surrender charges. The unprecedented low U.S. Treasury yields late in 2008 and continuing into early 2009 provided an environment where contract holders were able to surrender with smaller net surrender charges, increasing the level of surrender activity. At the same time, credit spreads were increased and a majority or our fixed maturity securities were in an unrealized loss position. We have initiated conservation efforts to reduce the surrender activity for existing contracts and are evaluating the terms and conditions for future products. In addition, the surrender charge protection has increased since year end with the increase in U.S. Treasury rates from the historic lows experienced at the end of 2008. However, the increase in surrenders, combined with the reduction in sales to preserve capital, may cause EquiTrust Life to incur losses and have net negative cash outflows in 2009. We anticipate using cash on hand and, to the extent necessary, proceeds from investment sales of fixed maturity securities in an unrealized gain position to meet these needs. We cannot predict the extent to which increased surrender activity will continue or what impact such excess surrenders could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our valuation of fixed maturity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. During periods of market disruption, such as the unprecedented current market conditions, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment or market conditions. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold the securities to recovery. Our conclusions regarding the recoverability of a particular security’s market price may ultimately prove to be incorrect as facts and circumstances change. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit quality risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our profitability and reported book value per share. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of fixed maturity securities and other debt securities in our portfolio (other than U.S. agency securities), and borrowers on our commercial mortgages, will default on principal and interest payments, particularly in the event of a major downturn in economic activity. As of December 31, 2008, we held $9.0 billion of fixed income securities, $0.3 billion of which represented below-investment grade holdings. Of these $0.3 billion of below-investment grade holdings, 88.6% were acquired as investment grade holdings but, as of December 31, 2008, had been downgraded to below investment grade. An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolios could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. We use derivative instruments to fund the credits on our index annuities. We purchase derivative instruments from a number of counterparties directly and assume derivatives through a coinsurance agreement. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, we will have failed to obtain funds for crediting appreciation in the applicable indices to contract holders. Any such failure could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. We have entered into two interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $100.0 million to manage interest rate risk on a portion of our flexible premium deferred annuity contracts. We also have one interest rate swap with a $46.0 million notional amount to hedge the variable component of the interest rate on a portion of our line of credit borrowings. We purchased these instruments from three different counterparties. If these counterparties fail to honor their obligations, we will have additional exposure to an increase in interest rates, which could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Changing interest rates, market volatility and general economic conditions affect the risks and the returns on both our products and our investment portfolio. The market value of our investments and our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains or losses, may vary depending on economic and market conditions. Such conditions include the shape of the yield curve, level of interest rates and recognized equity and bond indices. Interest rate risk is our primary market risk exposure. Substantial and sustained changes in market interest rates can materially affect the profitability of our products, the market value of our investments and the reported value of stockholders’ equity. A key component of our net income (loss) is the investment spread. A narrowing of investment spreads would adversely affect operating results. Although we have the right to adjust interest crediting rates on a substantial portion of our direct business in force, changes to crediting rates may not be sufficient to maintain targeted investment spreads in all economic and market environments. In general, our ability to lower crediting rates is subject to a minimum crediting rate filed with and approved by state regulators. In addition, competition and other 24 Table of Contents factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid the narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions. The profitability of our index annuities that are tied to market indices is significantly affected by the interest earned on investments, by the cost of underlying call options purchased to fund the credits owed to contract holders and by the minimum interest guarantees owed to the contract holder, if any. If there were little or no gains on the call options purchased over the expected life of an index annuity, we would incur expenses for credited interest over and above our option costs. In addition, if we are not successful in matching the terms of call options purchased with the terms of the index annuities, index credits could exceed call option proceeds. These items would cause our spreads to tighten and reduce our profits. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risks of Financial Instruments” for further discussion of our interest rate risk exposure and information regarding our asset-liability and hedging programs to help mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk. We face competition from companies having greater financial resources, more advanced technology systems, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength. See “Item 1. Business — Ratings and Competition” for information regarding risks relating to competition. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries for funds to meet our obligations, but our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us is limited by law, and could be affected by risk-based capital computations. As a holding company, we rely on dividends from subsidiaries to assist in meeting our obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other cash payments in the future may materially affect our ability to satisfy our parent company payment obligations, including debt service and dividends on our common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries, Farm Bureau Life and EquiTrust Life, to pay dividends to the parent company is limited by law to earned profits (statutory unassigned surplus) as of the date the dividend is paid, as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities of the State of Iowa. The annual dividend limitation is defined under the Iowa Insurance Holding Company Act as any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of adjusted policyholders’ surplus (total statutory capital stock and statutory surplus less certain admitted deferred tax assets) as of December 31 of the preceding year, or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations of the insurer for the 12-month period ending December 31 of the preceding year. During 2009, the maximum amount legally available for distribution to FBL Financial Group, Inc., without further regulatory approval, from Farm Bureau Life is $38.2 million. EquiTrust Life cannot pay a dividend without regulatory approval in 2009 due to its unassigned surplus position at December 31, 2008. See Note 13 of our consolidated financial statements for additional details on the dividend limitation. In addition, the Life Companies are subject to the risk-based capital (RBC) requirement of the NAIC set forth in the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act. The main purpose of the Model Act is to provide a tool for insurance regulators to evaluate the capital of insurers relative to the risks assumed by them and determine whether there is a need for possible corrective action. U.S. insurers and reinsurers are required to report the results of their RBC calculations as part of the statutory annual statements filed with state insurance regulatory authorities. The Model Act provides for four different levels of regulatory actions based on annual statements, each of which may be triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital, as defined in the Model Act, is less than a corresponding RBC. • The company action level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 200% of its authorized control level RBC, as defined in the Model Act. At the company action level, the insurer must submit a plan to the regulatory authority that discusses proposed corrective actions to improve its capital position. 25 Table of Contents • The regulatory action level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 150% of its authorized control level RBC. At the regulatory action level, the regulatory authority will perform a special examination of the insurer and issue an order specifying corrective actions that must be followed. • If an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than its authorized control level RBC, the regulatory authority is authorized (although not mandated) to take regulatory control of the insurer. • The mandatory control level is triggered if an insurer’s total adjusted capital is less than 70% of its authorized control level RBC, and at that level the regulatory authority must take regulatory control of the insurer. Regulatory control may lead to rehabilitation or liquidation of an insurer. Failure to maintain adequate capital levels could lead to ratings downgrades and liquidity issues which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. A significant ratings downgrade may have a material adverse effect on our business. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. If our ratings were lowered significantly, our ability to market products to new customers could be harmed and existing policyholders might cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our net income (loss) and liquidity. A decline in ratings could also violate the covenants of our $60.0 million line of credit and negatively affect the availability and cost of capital of borrowed funds. Our ratings reflect the agencies’ opinions as to the financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders of our insurance company subsidiaries. There is no assurance that a credit rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be reduced, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agency, if in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. See “Item 1. Business — Ratings and Competition” for a summary of our current ratings. All segments of our business are highly regulated and these regulations or changes in them could affect our profitability. We are subject to regulation under applicable insurance statutes, including insurance holding company statutes, in the various states in which our life subsidiaries operate. Insurance regulation is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect shareholders of insurance companies or their holding companies. Regulators oversee matters relating to sales practices, policy forms, claims practices, guaranty funds, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, changes in control and payment of dividends. State insurance regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future. As noted above, our life subsidiaries are subject to the NAIC’s RBC requirements which are used by insurance regulators as an early warning tool to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized insurance companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Our life subsidiaries also may be required, under solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of other insolvent insurance companies. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including pension regulation, age and sex discrimination, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation, can significantly affect the insurance business. As increased scrutiny has been placed upon the insurance regulatory framework, a number of state legislatures have considered or enacted legislative proposals that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance companies and holding company systems. Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past which could result in the federal government assuming some role in the regulation of the insurance industry. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving and could affect the design of such products and our ability to sell certain products. Any changes in these laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents In 2008 the SEC approved its Rule 151A, which will change the federal law status of index annuities from insurance products to registered securities products. Various organizations within the life insurance industry are challenging this SEC action and are attempting to overturn this rule. Assuming this rule is enacted, its effective date is expected to be January 12, 2011. At that time, index annuities will be considered a type of security and all agents selling index annuities will be required to be registered representatives affiliated with a licensed broker dealer. As a result of this rule, we may incur increased costs and decreased production for our index annuities with possible product design and compensation limitations. Index annuities are important to our business; however we also offer a wide variety of life insurance and annuity products and have experience with registered investment products. In addition, our investment management subsidiary is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. This subsidiary also manages investment companies (mutual funds) that are registered under the Investment Company Act, which places additional restrictions on its managers. Moreover, our separate accounts are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. The investment companies we advise and our registered separate accounts are themselves highly regulated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, our broker/dealer subsidiary that distributes the shares of our managed investment companies’ separate accounts is a broker/dealer registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and various state laws, and is a member of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. The registered representatives of our broker/dealer subsidiary and of other broker/dealers who distribute our securities products are regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are further subject to applicable state laws. We cannot predict the effect that any proposed or future legislation or rule making by the SEC, FINRA or the states will have on our financial condition or operational flexibility. Inaccuracies in assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality and interest rates used in calculating reserve, deferred policy acquisition expense and deferred sales inducement amounts and pricing our products could have a material adverse impact on our net income (loss). The process of calculating reserve, deferred policy acquisition expense and deferred sales inducement amounts and pricing products for an insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with the company), mortality (the relative incidence of death in a given time or place) and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. Inaccuracies in one or more of these assumptions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or deferred sales inducements, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements (collectively, DAC), represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. We test the DAC recorded on our consolidated balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC for those products for which we amortize DAC in proportion to gross profits. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in DAC that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Increases in actual or expected future withdrawals or surrenders and investment losses, which are more likely in a severe economic recession, will result in an acceleration of DAC amortization. In addition, significant or sustained equity and bond market declines could result in an acceleration of DAC amortization related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts. Our earnings are influenced by our claims experience, which is difficult to estimate. If our future claims experience does not match our pricing assumptions or past results, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings are significantly influenced by the claims paid under our insurance contracts and will vary from period to period depending upon the amount of claims incurred. There is only limited predictability of claims experience within any given quarter or year. The liability that we have established for future insurance and annuity policy benefits is based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including interest rates, expected claims, 27 Table of Contents persistency and expenses. In the event our future experience does not match our pricing assumptions or our past results, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We assumed a significant amount of closed block business through coinsurance agreements and have only a limited ability to manage this business. We have assumed through coinsurance agreements a substantial block of annuity business written by American Equity and certain traditional life, universal life and annuity business written by EMCNL. Our ability to manage the products covered by the coinsurance arrangements is limited and we can make no assurances that our coinsurance counterparties will make decisions regarding the operations of the business covered by the coinsurance agreements in the same manner that we would or in a manner that would have a positive impact on the business covered by the coinsurance arrangements. In addition, we rely on American Equity and EMCNL to supply us with accurate financial and accounting data relating to the business coinsured. Our reinsurance program involves risks because we remain liable with respect to the liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them. We reinsure a portion of our life insurance exposure with unaffiliated insurance companies under traditional indemnity reinsurance agreements. New sales of participating whole life and universal life products are reinsured above prescribed limits and do not require the reinsurer’s prior approval within certain guidelines. New sales of certain term life products are reinsured on a first dollar quota share basis and do not require the reinsurer’s prior approval within various guidelines. Generally, we enter into indemnity reinsurance arrangements to assist in diversifying our risks and to limit our maximum loss on risks that exceed our policy retention limits. Our maximum retention limit on an insured life ranges up to $1.1 million depending upon when the policy was issued. Indemnity reinsurance does not fully discharge our obligation to pay claims on the reinsured business. As the ceding insurer, we remain responsible for policy claims to the extent the reinsurer fails to pay claims. Should any reinsurer fail to meet the obligations assumed under such reinsurance, we remain liable for these liabilities, and payment of these obligations could result in losses. To limit the possibility of such losses, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our business is highly dependent on our relationships with Farm Bureau organizations and would be adversely affected if those relationships became impaired. Farm Bureau Life’s business relies significantly upon the maintenance of our right to use the “Farm Bureau” and “FB” trade names and related trademarks and service marks which are controlled by the American Farm Bureau Federation. See discussion under “Business — Marketing and Distribution — Affiliation with Farm Bureau” for information regarding this relationship and circumstances under which our access to the Farm Bureau membership base and use of the “Farm Bureau” and “FB” designations could be terminated. We believe our relationship with the Farm Bureau provides a number of advantages. Farm Bureau organizations in our current territory tend to be well known and long established, have active memberships and provide a number of member benefits other than financial services. The strength of these organizations provides enhanced prestige and brand awareness for our products and increased access to Farm Bureau members. The loss of the right to use these designations in a key state or states could have a material adverse effect upon operating results. Our relationship with Farm Bureau organizations could result in conflicts of interests. Our business and operations are interrelated to a degree with that of the American Farm Bureau Federation, its affiliates, and state Farm Bureaus. The overlap of the business, including service of certain common executive officers and directors of the Company and the state Farm Bureau organizations, may give rise to conflicts of interest among these parties. Conflicts could arise, for example, with respect to business dealings among the parties, the use of a common agency force, the sharing of employees, space and other services and facilities under intercompany agreements, and the allocation of business opportunities between them. Conflicts of interest could also arise between the Company and the various state Farm Bureau organizations in our life-only states, some of whose presidents serve as directors of the Company, and which control their state affiliated property-casualty insurance company, with respect to the use of the common agency force. We have adopted a conflict of interest policy which requires a director to disclose to the Board of Directors and any appropriate committee of the Board, the existence of 28 Table of Contents any transaction or proposed transaction in which the Director has a direct or indirect interest, and the material facts relating thereto. In addition, a majority of our directors are independent and our Audit and Compensation and Governance committees are all comprised solely of independent directors. Changes in federal tax laws may affect sales of our products and profitability. The annuity and life insurance products that we market generally offer tax advantages to the policyholders, as compared to other savings instruments such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds. Tax preferences include the deferral of income tax on the earnings during the accumulation period of the annuity or insurance policy as opposed to the current taxation of other savings instruments and the tax-free status of death benefit proceeds. In addition, life insurance companies receive a tax deduction for dividends received by separate accounts. Legislation eliminating this tax deferral and dividends received deduction could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell life insurance and annuities. Congress has from time to time considered legislation which would reduce or eliminate the benefits to policyholders of the deferral of taxation on the growth of value within certain insurance products or might otherwise affect the taxation of insurance products and insurance companies relative to other investments. To the extent that the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, is revised to reduce the tax-deferred status of insurance products, or to reduce the taxation of competing products, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to maintain competitive costs is dependent upon the level of new sales and persistency of existing business. Maintaining competitive costs depends upon numerous factors, including the level of new sales, persistency of existing business and expense management. A decrease in sales or persistency without a corresponding reduction in expenses could affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain agents and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced. We compete to attract and retain exclusive agents for Farm Bureau Life and independent agents for EquiTrust Life. Intense competition exists for persons and independent distributors with demonstrated ability. We compete primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services, rating agency ratings and financial position. Sales and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and additional distribution sources for our products. Attracting and retaining employees who are key to our business is critical to our growth and success. The success of our business is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition is generally intense in the job market for certain positions, such as actuaries and other insurance professionals with demonstrated ability, particularly in our headquarters city of West Des Moines, Iowa, where we compete with other insurance and financial institutions. Although we have change in control agreements with members of our management team, we do not have employment contracts with any of them. In general, our employees are not subject to employment contracts. Although none of our executive management team has indicated that they intend to terminate their employment, there can be no certainty regarding the length of time they will remain with us. Our inability to retain our key employees, or attract and retain additional qualified employees, could materially adversely affect our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements. Our business is dependent upon the ability to keep up to date with effective, secure and advanced technology systems for interacting with employees, agents, policyholders, vendors, agents, third parties and investors. It is crucial to our business to reach a large number of people, provide sizeable amounts of information, and secure and store information through our technology systems. If we do not maintain adequate systems to reflect technological 29 Table of Contents advancements, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions, regulatory problems, litigation exposure or increases in administrative expenses. This could adversely affect our relationships and ability to do business with our clients and provide difficulty attracting new customers. Some of our information technology systems and software are older legacy-type systems and require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. Our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products and systems to meet their needs. We are continuously enhancing and updating our systems to keep pace with changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer demands. Our success is in large part dependent on maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to develop and enhance information systems that support our business processes in a cost-effective manner. In the event of a disaster or catastrophic event, a computer system or information technology failure could occur and potentially disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our profitability. Disruptions or breaches could occur as a result of natural disasters, manmade disasters, epidemic/pandemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, criminal activity, technological changes or events, terrorism, or other unanticipated events beyond our control. While the company has obtained insurance and has implemented a variety of preventative security measures such as risk management, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, no predictions of specific scenarios can be made. Unanticipated problems with our business continuity systems and plans could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. We experience volatility in net income (loss) due to accounting standards for derivatives. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 133, as amended, derivative instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) not designated as hedges are recognized in the balance sheet at their fair values and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings. This impacts the items of revenue and expense we report in the following ways. • We must mark to market the purchased call options we use to fund the index credits on our index annuities based upon quoted market prices from related counterparties. We record the change in fair value of these options as a component of our revenues. Included within the change in fair value of the options is an element reflecting the time value of the options, which initially is their purchase cost declining to zero at the end of their lives. The change in the difference between fair value and remaining option cost at beginning and end of year totaled ($109.7) million in 2008, ($51.1) million in 2007 and $75.7 million in 2006. • Under Statement No. 133, the future annual index credits on our index annuities are treated as a “series of embedded derivatives” over the expected life of the applicable contracts. We are required to estimate the fair value of these embedded derivatives. Our estimates of the fair value of these embedded derivatives are based on assumptions related to underlying policy terms (including annual cap rates, participation rates, asset fees and minimum guarantees), index values, notional amounts, strike prices and expected lives of the contracts. The change in fair value of embedded derivatives increases with increases in volatility in the indices and changes in interest rates. We record the change in fair value of embedded derivatives as a component of our benefits and expenses. However, it will not correspond to the change in fair value of the purchased call options because the purchased options are one or two-year assets while the embedded derivative in the index contracts represents the rights of the contract holder to receive index credits over the entire period the index annuities are expected to be in force, which typically exceeds 10 years. Changes in the value of the embedded derivatives included in the index annuity contracts totaled ($189.4) million in 2008, ($5.9) million in 2007 and $70.3 million in 2006. • Changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps backing our annuity liabilities are recorded in derivative income (loss) and totaled ($1.4) million in 2008 and ($4.8) million in 2007. Prior to April 2007, changes in the fair value of these swaps were recorded as a component of the change in accumulated other 30 Table of Contents comprehensive income (loss). Amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of March 31, 2007, are being amortized over the remaining life of the swap. These amounts totaled ($1.1) million in 2008, ($3.8) million in 2007 and ($1.2) million in 2006. • We adjust the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements to reflect the impact of the three items discussed above. • Our earnings are also affected by the changes in the value of the embedded derivatives in convertible fixed maturity securities and modified coinsurance contracts. Changes in the value of these embedded derivatives totaled $0 in 2008, less than ($0.1) million in 2007 and ($0.2) million in 2006. The application of Statement No. 133 to our derivatives and embedded derivatives may cause volatility in our results of operations. We face risks relating to litigation, including the costs of such litigation, management distraction and the potential for damage awards, which may adversely impact our business. We are occasionally involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. In addition, state regulatory bodies, such as state insurance departments, the SEC, FINRA, the Department of Labor and other regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. Companies in the life insurance and annuity business have faced litigation, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper product design, improper sales practices and similar claims. Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our affiliated agents, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies and recommending transactions that are not suitable. While we are not a party to any lawsuit that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that such litigation, or any future litigation, will not have such an effect, whether financially, through distraction of our management or otherwise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 