Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K (or otherwise made by the Company or on the Company’s behalf from time to time in other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, conferences, website postings or otherwise) that are not statements of historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, notwithstanding that such statements are not specifically identified. Forward-looking statements include statements about the Company’s financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management of the Company for future operations. These forward-looking statements reflect the best judgments of the Company about the future events and trends based on the beliefs of the Company’s management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the Company’s management. Use of the words “may,” “should,” “continue,” “plan,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect” and “intend” and words or phrases of similar import, as they relate to the Company or its subsidiaries or Company management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A—Risk Factors as well as future growth rates and margins for certain of our products and services, future demand for our products and services, competitive factors, general economic conditions, cyclicality, economic conditions in the new and used truck and equipment markets, customer relations, relationships with vendors, the interest rate environment, governmental regulation and supervision, seasonality, distribution networks, product introductions and acceptance, technological change, changes in industry practices, onetime events and other factors described herein and in the Company’s quarterly and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively, “cautionary statements”). Although the Company believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Based upon changing conditions, should any one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the applicable cautionary statements. The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. NOTE REGARDING INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) allows us to disclose important information to you by referring you to other documents we have filed with the SEC. The information we refer to is “incorporated by reference” into this Form 10-K. Please read that information. NOTE REGARDING TRADEMARKS USED IN THIS FORM 10-K Peterbilt® is a registered trademark of Peterbilt Motors Company. PACCAR® is a registered trademark of PACCAR, Inc. GMC® is as registered trademark of General Motors Corporation. Hino® is a registered trademark of Hino Motors, Ltd. UD® is a registered trademark of Nissan Diesel Motor Co., Ltd. Isuzu® is a registered trademark of Isuzu Motors Limited. John Deere® is a registered trademark of Deere & Company. Kenworth® is a registered trademark of PACCAR, Inc. doing business as Kenworth Truck Company. Volvo® is a registered trademark of Volvo Trademark Holding AB. Freightliner® is a registered trademark of Freightliner Corporation. Mack® is a registered trademark of Mack Trucks, Inc. Navistar® is a registered trademark of Navistar International Corporation. Caterpillar® is a registered trademark of Caterpillar, Inc. Cummins® is a registered trademark of Cummins Engine Company, Inc. PacLease® is a registered trademark of PACCAR Leasing Corporation. CitiCapital® is a registered trademark of Citicorp. PART I Item 1. Business References herein to “the Company,” “Rush Enterprises,” “Rush,” “we,” “our” or “us” mean Rush Enterprises, Inc., a Texas corporation, its subsidiaries and Associated Acceptance, Inc., the insurance agency affiliated with the Company, unless the context requires otherwise. 1 Access to Company Information Rush electronically files annual reports, quarterly reports, and special reports with the SEC. You may read and copy any of the materials that we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings are also available to you on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Rush makes certain of its SEC filings available, free of charge, through its website, including its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports. These filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Rush’s website address is www.rushenterprises.com. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this document. General Rush Enterprises, Inc. was incorporated in Texas in 1965 and currently consists of two reportable segments: the Truck Segment and the Construction Equipment Segment. The Company is a full-service, integrated retailer of premium transportation and construction equipment and related services. Our Rush Truck Centers primarily sell heavy-duty trucks manufactured by Peterbilt, a division of PACCAR, Inc.. Certain Rush Truck Centers sell medium-duty trucks manufactured by Peterbilt, GMC, Hino, UD or Isuzu. The Company also operates a John Deere construction equipment dealership at its Rush Equipment Center in Houston, Texas. Through its strategically located network of Rush Truck Centers and its Rush Equipment Center, the Company provides one-stop service for the needs of its customers, including retail sales of new and used trucks and construction equipment, aftermarket parts sales, service and repair facilities and financing, leasing and rental, and insurance services. In January 2005, the Company acquired certain assets of American Truck Source, Inc., including its Peterbilt truck dealerships in Texas and Tennessee for a total purchase price of $132.4 million. The acquisition provides the Company with rights to sell Peterbilt trucks and parts from new locations in Dallas, Fort Worth, Abilene and Tyler, Texas and Nashville, Tennessee. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of the allocation of the purchase price of the acquisition. The Company also made several acquisitions of medium-duty truck stores during 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of the allocation of the purchase price of these acquisitions. The Company’s Rush Truck Centers are principally located in high traffic areas throughout the southern United States. Since commencing operations as a Peterbilt heavy-duty truck dealer in 1966, the Company has grown to operate more than 40 Rush Truck Centers in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. The Company’s Rush Equipment Center in Houston, Texas sells, leases and rents a full line of John Deere construction equipment as well as a variety of construction equipment trailers. The Company currently conducts business through numerous subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by it. Its principal offices are located at 555 IH 35 South, New Braunfels, Texas 78130. Industry We currently operate in the heavy-duty truck, medium-duty truck and construction equipment markets. There has historically been a high correlation in both of these markets between new product sales and the rate of change in U.S. industrial production and the U.S. gross domestic product. Heavy-Duty Truck Market The Company serves the southern U.S. retail heavy-duty truck market, which is affected by a number of factors relating to general economic conditions, including fuel prices, government regulation, interest rate fluctuations, economic recessions and customer business cycles. In addition, unit sales of new trucks have historically been subject to substantial 2 cyclical variation based on such general economic conditions. According to data published by A.C.T. Research Co., LLC (“A.C.T. Research”), a heavy-duty truck industry data and forecasting services provider, in recent years total domestic retail sales of new Class 8 trucks have ranged from a low of approximately 140,000 in 2001 to a high of approximately 262,000 in 1999. Class 8 trucks are defined by the American Automobile Association as trucks with a minimum gross vehicle weight rating above 33,000 pounds. Domestic Class 8 unit sales are expected to increase to approximately 266,000 units during 2006 according to A.C.T. Research. The Company’s primary product line is Peterbilt heavy-duty trucks, which, according to A.C.T. Research, accounted for approximately 11.68% of all new heavy-duty truck sales in the U.S. during 2005. The Company’s share of the U.S. Class 8 truck sales market was approximately 3.9% in 2005. Typically, Class 8 trucks are assembled by manufacturers utilizing certain components manufactured by other companies, including engines, transmissions, axles, wheels and other components. As trucks and truck components have become increasingly complex, the ability to provide state-of-the-art service for a wide variety of truck equipment has become a competitive factor in the industry. The ability to provide such service requires a significant capital investment in diagnostic and other equipment, parts inventory and highly trained service personnel. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) regulatory guidelines for service processes, including body shop, paint work and waste disposal, require sophisticated operating and testing equipment to ensure compliance with environmental and safety standards. Additionally, we believe that more of our customers will lease or rent Class 8 trucks as fleets, particularly private fleets, and seek to establish full-service leases or rental contracts, which provide for turnkey service including parts, maintenance and, potentially, fuel, fuel tax reporting and other services. As a result, differentiation between truck dealers has become less dependent on pure price competition and is increasingly based on a dealer’s ability to offer a wide variety of services to their clients. Such services include: efficient, conveniently located and easily accessible truck service centers with an adequate supply of replacement parts; financing for truck purchases; leasing and rental programs; and the ability to accept multiple unit trade-ins related to large fleet purchases. We believe our one-stop center concept and the size and geographic diversity of our dealer network gives us a competitive advantage in providing these services. The EPA mandated that heavy-duty engine manufacturers meet new, stricter emissions guidelines regarding nitrous oxides for all engines built subsequent to October 1, 2002. These new guidelines increased the price of new heavy-duty trucks by approximately $3,000 to $8,000 per unit and reduced the operating efficiency and life cycle of heavy-duty trucks. In 2002, the heavy-duty truck industry experienced an increased demand for trucks, as it historically has in the months preceding the effective date of a change in EPA engine emission guidelines; this period of increased demand was followed by a decrease in demand in the months subsequent to the change. The EPA has placed additional guidelines, further restricting the emissions of nitrous oxides, for all engines built subsequent to January 1, 2007. The Company believes that the 2007 change in emission guidelines will cause demand for heavy-duty trucks to remain high through 2006 as large fleets accelerate their normal purchase cycles to avoid purchasing 2007 engines. The Company expects a fall-off in demand for trucks in 2007 due to the emissions guidelines. The severity of the fall-off in demand for trucks in 2007 will depend upon several factors including, without limitation, new diesel engine prices, the results of tests on the new diesel engines designed to meet the 2007 standards, and projected maintenance and operation costs of the new diesel engines and general economic conditions. Industry expectations are for the new engines to add $6,000 to $8,000 to the cost of a new Class 8 truck and increase maintenance and operating costs as well. According to A.C.T. Research’s current estimates, approximately 266,000 new Class 8 trucks will be sold in the United States in 2006, compared to approximately 259,000 new trucks sold in 2005. The 2005 new heavy-duty truck sales totals were the second highest new heavy-duty truck sales totals in history, falling just short of the 1999 record. In 2007, A.C.T. Research currently forecasts sales of Class 8 trucks to fall off to 179,000 units. However, A.C.T. Research and other industry experts expect Class 8 truck sales to rebound in 2008 and 2009. A.C.T. Research currently forecasts sales of Class 8 trucks in the U.S. to be approximately 234,000 in 2008 and 265,000 in 2009. Medium-Duty Truck Market Several of our Rush Truck Centers sell medium-duty trucks manufactured by Peterbilt, GMC, Hino, UD or Isuzu, and provide parts and service for medium-duty trucks. Medium-duty trucks are principally used in short-haul, local markets as delivery vehicles. Medium-duty trucks typically operate locally and generally do not venture out of their service areas overnight. The nature of the medium-duty truck market promotes the use of our service facilities during our evening shift, which is traditionally a slow period for heavy-duty truck service. 3 A.C.T. Research estimates that U.S. retail sales of Class 5 through 7 medium-duty trucks totaled approximately 216,000 units in 2005 and are forecasting 2006 U.S. retail sales to be approximately 213,000 units. The Company plans to continue to expand its share of the medium-duty market by adding new product lines to existing dealerships, adding dealership locations and adding sales personnel. See Note 17 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Company’s medium-duty acquisitions in 2005. Construction Equipment Market Our Rush Equipment Center is an authorized John Deere construction equipment dealer. Our Rush Equipment Center serves Houston, Texas and the surrounding area. According to the data compiled by John Deere, approximately 2,700 units of construction equipment were put into use in our area of responsibility in 2005 compared to 2,256 in 2004. In 2006, we expect new construction equipment unit sales to increase approximately 5%, to 2,840 units, in our area of responsibility. John Deere’s market share in the Houston area was 19.9% in 2005 and 16.3% in 2004. Our Rush Equipment Center has the right to sell new John Deere construction equipment and parts within its assigned area of responsibility, which means competition within its market comes primarily from dealers of competing manufacturers and rental companies. John Deere equipment users are a diverse group that includes residential and commercial construction businesses, independent rental companies, utility companies, government agencies, and various petrochemical, industrial and material supply businesses. Industry statistics suggest that a majority of all construction equipment is owned by a relatively small percentage of the customer base. Accordingly, John Deere and its dealer group, including the Rush Equipment Center, are aggressively developing more sophisticated ways to serve large equipment fleet owners. Market factors affecting the construction equipment industry include the following: • levels of commercial, residential, and public construction activities; and • state and federal highway and road construction appropriations. Our Business Strategy Operating Strategy. Our strategy is to operate an integrated dealer network that primarily markets Peterbilt heavy-duty trucks, medium-duty trucks from various manufacturers and John Deere construction equipment and provides complementary products and services. Our strategy includes the following key elements: • One-Stop Centers. We have developed our truck and construction equipment dealerships as “one-stop centers” where, at one convenient location, our customers can do the following: purchase new and used trucks or construction equipment; finance, lease or rent trucks or construction equipment; purchase aftermarket parts and accessories; and have service performed by certified technicians. We believe that this full-service strategy also helps to mitigate cyclical economic fluctuations because the parts and service sales at our dealerships generally tend to be less volatile than our new and used truck and construction equipment sales. • Branding Program. We employ a branding program for our dealerships through distinctive signage and uniform marketing programs to take advantage of our existing name recognition and to communicate the standardized high quality of our products and reliability of our services throughout our dealership network. • Management by Dealership Units. At each of our dealerships, we operate one or more of the following business units: new sales, used sales, parts, service, body shop, leasing, rental or financial services. Our general managers measure and manage the operations of each of our dealerships according to the specific business units operating at that location. We believe that this system enhances the profitability of all aspects of a dealership and increases our overall operating margins. Operating goals for each business unit at each of our dealerships are established annually and managers are rewarded for performance accordingly. • Integrated Management Information Systems. In order to efficiently operate separate business units within each dealership, we rely upon our management information systems to determine and monitor appropriate inventory levels and product mix at each Rush Truck Center. Each Rush Truck Center can access a centralized real-time inventory tracking system that is accessible simultaneously by all locations. Our automated parts reordering system assists each Rush Truck Center in maintaining the proper inventory levels and typically 4 permits inventory delivery to each location, or directly to customers, within 24 hours from the time the order is placed. In addition, by actively monitoring market conditions, assessing product and expansion strategies and remaining abreast of changes within the market, we are able to proactively address market-by-market changes by realigning and, if necessary, adding product lines and models. Growth Strategy. Through our expansion and acquisition initiatives, we have grown to operate a large, multistate, full-service network of truck dealerships. As described below, we intend to continue to grow our business internally and through acquisitions by expanding into new geographic areas, expanding our product offerings and opening new one-stop truck and equipment centers in existing markets. • Expansion Into New Geographic Areas. We plan to continue to expand our Rush Truck Center network and build a Rush Equipment Center network by acquiring additional dealerships in geographic areas contiguous to our current operations. We have successfully expanded our presence from our Texas base into a coast-to-coast network of Rush Truck Centers. We believe the geographic diversity of our Rush Truck Center network has significantly expanded our customer base while reducing the effects of local economic cycles. Geographic diversification supports the sale of trucks and parts by allowing us to allocate our inventory among the geographic regions we serve based on market demand within these regions. • Expansion of Product Offerings. We intend to continue to expand our product lines within our Rush Truck Centers and our Rush Equipment Center by adding product categories that are both complementary to our existing product lines and well suited to our operating model. We believe that there are many additional product and service offerings that would complement our primary product lines. We expect any product category expansion that we pursue to satisfy our requirements that: • the products are of a premium brand; • the products provide opportunities for incremental income through related aftermarket sales, service or financing; and • Rush operating controls can be implemented to enhance the financial performance of the business. • Open New Rush Truck and Equipment Centers in Existing Areas of Operation. We believe that there are opportunities to increase our share of the heavy-duty truck market by introducing our one-stop centers to underserved markets within our current areas of operation. For example, we recently added a Rush Truck Center in Alice, Texas, to take better advantage of a high-density heavy-duty truck population within our existing area of operation. The introduction of additional one-stop centers enables us to enhance revenues from our existing customer base as well as increase the awareness of the “Rush” brand name for new customers. In identifying new areas for expansion, we analyze the target market’s level of new truck registrations, customer buying and leasing trends and the existence of competing franchises. We also assess the potential performance of a parts and service center to determine whether a market is suitable for a Rush Truck Center. After a market has been strategically reviewed, we survey the region for a well-situated location. Whether we acquire existing dealerships or open a new Rush Truck Center, we will introduce our branding program and implement our integrated management system. Management of Our Dealerships We manage our dealerships as described below. Rush Truck Centers Our Rush Truck Centers are responsible for sales of new and used heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks, as well as related parts and services. New Truck Sales. New heavy-duty truck sales represent the largest portion of our revenue, accounting for approximately $1,074.4 million, or 57.6%, of our total revenues for 2005. Rush Truck Centers primarily sell new Class 8 heavy-duty Peterbilt trucks, which constitute more than 86% of all our new truck revenue. The average delivery time for a 5 custom-ordered truck can vary between 14 days to six months depending on vehicle specifications and demand. We also sell Class 8 heavy-duty trucks manufactured by Volvo Trucks of North America, Inc. at our Tulsa Rush Truck Center. Our Rush Truck Centers that sell new and used Class 8 heavy-duty trucks also sell Class 6 and Class 7 medium-duty Peterbilt trucks. Many Rush Truck Centers also sell medium-duty trucks manufactured by GMC, Hino, Isuzu and UD. Medium-duty truck sales accounted for approximately $158.0 million, or 8.5%, of our total revenues for 2005. Our customers use heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks to haul various materials, including general freight, petroleum, wood products, refuse and construction materials. A significant portion of our new truck sales are to fleet customers (customers who purchase more than five trucks in any 12-month period). Because of the size of our Rush Truck Center network, our strong relationships with our fleet customers and our ability to handle large quantities of used truck trade-ins, we are able to successfully market and sell to fleet customers nationwide. We believe that we have a competitive advantage over most other dealers in that we can absorb multiunit trade-ins often associated with fleet sales and effectively disperse the used trucks for resale throughout our dealership network. We believe that our attention to customer service and our broad range of trucking services, including our ability to offer truck financing and insurance to our customers, has resulted in a high level of customer loyalty. Used Truck Sales. Used truck sales accounted for approximately $160.5 million, or 8.6%, of our total revenues for 2005. We primarily sell used Class 8 heavy-duty trucks, but we also sell used medium-duty trucks at several locations. We believe that we are well positioned to market used heavy-duty trucks due to our ability to recondition them for resale utilizing the parts and service departments of our Rush Truck Centers and our ability to move used trucks between Rush Truck Centers to satisfy customer demand. The majority of our used truck fleet consists of trucks taken as trade-ins from new truck customers, but we supplement our used truck fleet by purchasing used trucks from third parties for resale. Truck Parts and Service. Truck-related parts and service revenues accounted for approximately $351.4 million, or 18.8%, of our total revenues for 2005. We are the sole authorized Peterbilt parts and accessories supplier in each of the geographic territories served by our Rush Truck Centers. The parts business enhances our sales and service functions and is a source of recurring revenue. Each Rush Truck Center carries a wide variety of Peterbilt and other truck parts in its inventory. Rush Truck Centers offer “menu” pricing of service and body shop functions. We also have field service trucks and technicians who are capable of making on-site repairs at our customers’ locations. Our Rush Truck Centers also feature various combinations of fully equipped service and body shop facilities, the combination and configuration of which varies by location, capable of handling a broad range of truck repairs on most makes and classes of trucks. Each Rush Truck Center is a Peterbilt designated warranty service center and most are also authorized service centers for other manufacturers, including the following: Caterpillar, Cummins, Eaton Corporation and ArvinMeritor, Inc. We have more than 750 service and body shop bays, including 26 paint booths, throughout our Rush Truck Center network. We perform both warranty and nonwarranty service work. The cost of warranty work is reimbursed by the manufacturer at retail consumer rates. A majority of the service technicians at our Rush Truck Centers have been certified by various truck or component manufacturers. Truck Leasing and Rental. Truck leasing and rental revenues accounted for approximately $33.9 million, or 1.8%, of our total revenues for 2005. We engage in full-service truck leasing under the PacLease trade name at nine of our Rush Truck Centers and are the largest PacLease dealer in the United States. Leasing and rental customers contribute to additional parts sales and service work at Rush Truck Centers because most of our leases require service and maintenance for the leased trucks to be performed at our facilities (or at facilities outside our service area, as we direct). Rented trucks are also generally serviced at our facilities. We have increased our lease and rental fleet from less than 100 trucks in 1993 to 1,798 trucks as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we owned approximately 55% of our lease and rental fleet, and leased the remaining trucks in our fleet primarily from PACCAR Financial Corporation (“PACCAR Financial”). Currently, the average age of the trucks in our lease and rental fleet is approximately 28 months. Generally, we hold trucks in our lease and rental fleet for approximately five years and then sell them through the used sales operations at our Rush Truck Centers. Historically, we have realized gains on the sale of used lease trucks in excess of the cost of the purchase option contained in our leases with PACCAR Financial or the book value of trucks owned by the Company. 6 Rush Equipment Center Our Rush Equipment Center in Houston, Texas is responsible for sales of new and used construction equipment and related parts and service. New Construction Equipment Sales. New construction equipment sales accounted for approximately $38.2 million, or 2.0%, of our total revenues for 2005. Our Rush Equipment Center carries a complete line of John Deere construction equipment. A new piece of John Deere construction equipment typically ranges in price from $50,000 for a backhoe to $500,000 for an excavator. We carry a full line of complementary construction equipment manufactured by other suppliers to enhance our John Deere product line. We sell construction equipment to a diverse customer base including residential and commercial construction contractors, utility companies, government agencies, and various petrochemical, industrial and material supply businesses. We believe that John Deere’s reputation for manufacturing high quality construction equipment attracts new and repeat customers who value lower maintenance and repair costs and a higher residual value at trade-in. We attempt to increase this brand loyalty with an operating strategy that is similar to the operating strategy used by our Rush Truck Centers and focuses on providing fast, reliable service. We believe that our operating strategy will enable us to both increase our customer base and generate repeat business for all product offerings. Used Construction Equipment Sales. Used construction equipment sales accounted for approximately $3.5 million, or 0.2%, of our total revenues for 2005. We sell used construction equipment manufactured by several manufacturers, including John Deere, Case Corporation, Caterpillar, and Komatsu, Ltd. Our used construction equipment inventory is derived from trade-ins from our construction equipment customers and purchases from third parties. Construction Equipment Parts and Service. Construction equipment-related parts and service revenues accounted for approximately $14.5 million, or 0.8%, of our total revenues for 2005. Our Rush Equipment Center carries a wide variety of John Deere and other parts in its inventory, which consists of over 10,000 items from more than 15 suppliers. We are an authorized John Deere construction equipment parts and accessories supplier in the Houston, Texas area. We maintain a fully equipped service operation capable of handling repairs on John Deere construction equipment and most other brands of construction equipment at our Rush Equipment Center. We enhance our service presence with field service trucks and technicians who are capable of making on-site repairs at our customers’ locations. Financial and Insurance Services We sell a complete line of property and casualty insurance to our customers as well as to the general trucking public. Our agency is licensed to sell truck liability, general liability, collision and comprehensive, workers’ compensation, cargo, credit life and health and occupational accident insurance coverage throughout our operating territory. We serve as sales representatives for a number of leading insurance companies including the Great American Insurance Companies, Hartford Insurance Group and American General Financial Group. Our renewal rate during 2005 was 75%. At our Rush Truck Centers and our Rush Equipment Center we have personnel responsible for arranging third-party financing for our product offerings. We also have licensed insurance agents at some of our dealerships in Arizona, California, Florida, New Mexico, Tennessee and Texas who arrange insurance for our customers. The sale of financial and insurance products accounted for approximately $15.4 million, or 0.8%, of our total revenue for 2005. Finance and insurance revenues have minimal direct costs and, therefore, contribute a disproportionate share of our operating profits. New and Used Truck Financing. Primarily through General Electric Capital Corporation (“GE Capital”) and PACCAR Financial, we arranged customer financing of approximately $425.8 million in 2005, an increase of 77.6% from approximately $239.7 million in 2004. Generally, truck finance contracts are memorialized through the use of installment contracts, which are secured by the trucks financed, and require a down payment of 10% to 30% of the value of the financed truck, with the remaining balance financed over a two to five-year period. The majority of finance contracts are sold without recourse to the Company. The Company’s recourse liability related to finance contracts sold with recourse to the Company ranges from 5% to 100% of the outstanding amount of each note initiated on behalf of the finance company (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies”). The Company provides for an allowance for repossession losses and early repayment penalties. New and Used Construction Equipment Financing. Through The CIT Group, Inc., CitiCapital, John Deere Credit and others, we arranged customer financing for approximately $26.0 million in 2005, an increase of 28.7% from 7 approximately $20.2 million in 2004. Generally, construction equipment finance contracts are memorialized through the use of installment or lease contracts, which are secured by the construction equipment financed, and generally require a down payment of 0% to 10% of the value of the financed piece of construction equipment, with the remaining balance being financed over a three to five-year period. All finance contracts for construction equipment are assigned without recourse. Sales and Marketing Our established expansion and acquisition strategy and long history of operations in the heavy-duty truck business have resulted in a strong customer base that is diverse in terms of geography, industry and scale of operations. Rush Truck Centers’ customers include owner operators, regional and national truck fleets, corporations and local governments. During 2005, no single customer of our Rush Truck Centers accounted for more than 10% of our total truck sales by dollar volume. Our Rush Equipment Centers’ customer base is similarly diverse and, during 2005, no single Rush Equipment Center customer accounted for more than 10% of our total construction equipment sales by dollar volume. We generally promote our products and related services through direct customer contact by our sales personnel, advertisements in trade magazines and attendance at industry shows. We believe that the consistently reliable service received by our customers, our longevity and our geographic diversity have resulted in increased market recognition of the “Rush” brand name and have served to reinforce customer loyalty. In an effort to enhance our name recognition and to communicate the standardized high level of quality products and services provided at our Rush Truck Centers and our Rush Equipment Center, we implement our “Rush” brand name concept at each of our dealerships. Each of our dealerships is identified as either a Rush Truck Center or Rush Equipment Center. Facility Management Personnel. Each Rush Truck Center and the Rush Equipment Center is managed by a general manager who oversees the operations, personnel and the financial performance of the location, subject to the direction of our corporate office. Additionally, each Rush Truck Center is typically staffed by a sales manager, parts manager, service manager, sales representatives, parts employees, and other service and makeready employees. The sales staff of each Rush Truck Center and the Rush Equipment Center is compensated on a salary plus commission basis, with a high percentage of their compensation consisting of commission, while the general manager, parts manager and service manager receive a combination of salary and performance bonus, with a high percentage of their compensation consisting of the performance bonus. We believe that our employees are among the highest paid in their respective industries which enables us to attract and retain qualified personnel. On an annual basis, general managers prepare detailed monthly profit and loss forecasts based upon historical information and projected trends. A portion of each general manager’s performance bonus is based upon whether they meet or exceed their operating plans. During the year, general managers regularly review their facility’s progress with senior management and make appropriate adjustments as needed. Most of our employees receive annual performance evaluations. We have been successful in retaining our senior management and general managers. To promote communication and efficiency in operating standards, general managers and members of senior management attend several company-wide strategy sessions per year. In addition, management personnel attend various industry-sponsored leadership and management seminars and receive continuing education on the products we distribute, marketing strategies and management information systems. Members of senior management regularly travel to each location to provide on-site management and support. Each location is audited regularly for administrative record-keeping, human resources and environmental compliance matters. The Company has instituted succession planning pursuant to which employees in each Rush Truck Center and the Rush Equipment Center are groomed as assistant managers to assume management responsibilities in existing and future dealerships. Purchasing and Suppliers. We believe that pricing is an important element of our marketing strategy. Because of our size, our Rush Truck Centers benefit from volume purchases at favorable prices that permit them to achieve a competitive pricing position in the industry. We purchase our Peterbilt heavy-duty truck inventory and Peterbilt parts and accessories directly from PACCAR. All other manufacturers’ parts and accessories, including those of Caterpillar, Cummins and others, are purchased through wholesale vendors or from PACCAR, which buys such products in bulk for 8 resale to the Company and other Peterbilt dealers. All purchasing commitments are negotiated by personnel at our corporate headquarters. We have been able to negotiate favorable pricing levels and terms, which enables us to offer competitive prices for our products. We purchase all of our John Deere construction equipment inventory and John Deere parts directly from John Deere. Management Information Systems. Each Rush Truck Center and the Rush Equipment Center maintains a centralized real-time inventory tracking system which is accessible simultaneously by all locations and by our corporate office. We utilize our management information systems to monitor the inventory level of trucks and parts at each of our dealerships. From information assimilated from management information systems, management has developed a model reflecting historic sales levels of different product lines. This model enables management to identify the appropriate level and combination of inventory and forms the basis of our operating plan. Our management information systems and databases are also used to monitor market conditions and sales information and assess product and expansion strategies. Information received from state and regulatory agencies, manufacturers, industry analysts and industry contacts allows us to determine market share statistics and gross volume sales numbers for our products as well as those of competitors. This information impacts ongoing operations because management remains aware of changes within the markets we service and is able to react accordingly by realigning product lines and by adding new product lines and models. Distribution and Inventory Management. We utilize a real-time inventory tracking system to maintain a close link between each Rush Truck Center. This link allows for timely and cost-effective sharing of managerial and sales information as well as the prompt transfer of inventory among various locations. The transfer of inventory reduces delays in delivery, helps maximize inventory turns and assists in controlling problems created by overstock and understock situations. We are linked directly to our major suppliers, including PACCAR (Peterbilt), GMC, and John Deere, via real-time communication links for purposes of ordering and inventory management. These automated reordering and communication systems allow us to maintain proper inventory levels and permit us to have inventory delivered to our locations, or directly to customers, typically within 24 hours of an order being placed. Recent Acquisitions and Dispositions In October 2005, the Company purchased certain assets of TEC of California, Inc., which consisted of GMC, Isuzu and Hino medium-duty franchises. The newly acquired lines were added to the Company’s existing medium-duty truck store in Fontana, California. The transaction was valued at approximately $3.4 million, with the purchase price paid in cash. In September 2005, the Company purchased certain assets of Hayes Leasing Company, Inc., which consisted of GMC and UD medium-duty franchises. The newly acquired lines were added to the Company’s existing medium-duty truck store in Dallas, Texas. The transaction was valued at approximately $3.4 million, with the purchase price paid in cash. In September 2005, the Company purchased certain assets of Barrett Trucks, LLC., which consisted of a GMC and Isuzu medium-duty dealership in Texarkana, Texas. The Company added Peterbilt trucks to the dealership and is operating the facility as a full-service Rush Truck Center offering heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks, parts and service. The transaction was valued at approximately $626,000, with the purchase price paid in cash. In July 2005, the Company purchased certain assets of Fountain Motor Co., Inc., which consisted of a GMC and Isuzu medium-duty dealership in Orlando, Florida. The Company added Peterbilt trucks and UD products to the dealership and is operating the facility as a full-service Rush Truck Center offering heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks, parts and service. The transaction was valued at approximately $2.8 million, with the purchase price paid in cash. In January 2005, the Company acquired certain assets of ATS, including its Peterbilt truck dealerships in Texas and Tennessee, for a total purchase price of $132.4 million. The acquisition provides the Company with rights to sell Peterbilt trucks and parts at new locations in Dallas, Fort Worth, Abilene and Tyler, Texas and Nashville, Tennessee. The transaction was financed with cash of $77.8 million, expansion of the Company’s existing floor plan agreement for truck inventory of $34.6 million, and the issuance of debt of approximately $20.0 million to finance the purchase of real estate and certain vehicles used in ATS’s leasing operations. Of the $77.8 million paid in cash, $21.9 million was for the purchase of a note receivable from the selling shareholders of ATS. This $21.9 million was immediately repaid by the selling shareholders at closing, resulting in net cash used in the acquisition of $55.9 million. 9 In November 2003, the Company sold certain assets of our wholly owned subsidiary, Rush Truck Centers of Louisiana, Inc. The transaction was valued at approximately $5.5 million and paid in cash. The Company recognized a gain on sale of assets of approximately $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. In April 2003, the Company purchased substantially all of the assets of Peterbilt of Mobile, Inc., a Peterbilt dealership in Mobile, Alabama. The transaction was valued at approximately $1.4 million, with the purchase price paid in cash. In February 2003, the Company acquired the common stock of Orange County Truck and Trailers, Inc., a Peterbilt dealer in central Florida. The acquisition provided Rush with the right to sell Peterbilt trucks and parts in central Florida from locations in Orlando, Haines City, and Tampa, Florida. The transaction was valued at approximately $5.4 million, with the purchase price paid in cash. On November 12, 2002, the Company decided to discontinue its Retail Segment (“D&D”), which operated three farm and ranch retail stores in Seguin, Hockley and Denton, Texas. The Company decided that the retail segment did not fit into its long-term plans of growing its core heavy-duty truck and construction equipment businesses. The Denton store was closed in December 2002, the Hockley store began liquidating inventory during November 2002 and completed the liquidation on March 9, 2003. The Company sold the Seguin store and Hockley real estate during the fourth quarter of 2004. Competition There is, and will continue to be, significant competition both within our current markets and in new markets we may enter. We anticipate that competition between us and other dealers will continue to increase in our current markets and on a national level based on the following: • the accessibility of dealership locations; • the number of dealership locations; • price, value, quality and design of the products sold; and • attention to customer service (including technical service). Our new truck products compete with trucks made by other manufacturers and sold through competing independent and factory-owned truck dealerships, including trucks manufactured by Navistar, Mack, Freightliner, Kenworth, Volvo, Ford Motor Company, Western Star Truck Holdings, Ltd., and other manufacturers. Kenworth heavy-duty trucks are also manufactured by PACCAR, Peterbilt’s parent company, but are distributed through a different network of competing dealers. Our construction equipment products compete with construction equipment manufactured by Case Corporation, Caterpillar, Komatsu Ltd. and other manufacturers. We believe that our dealerships are able to compete with manufacturer-dealers, independent dealers and wholesalers, rental service companies and industrial auctioneers in distributing our products because of the following: the overall quality and reputation of the products we sell; “Rush” brand name recognition and reputation for quality service; and our ability to provide comprehensive parts and service support, as sell as financing, insurance and other customer services. Dealership Agreements Peterbilt. We have entered into nonexclusive dealership agreements with Peterbilt which authorize us to act as a dealer of Peterbilt heavy-duty trucks. Our areas of responsibility currently encompass areas in the states of Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. These dealership agreements have current terms expiring between March 2006 and January 2008 and impose certain operational obligations and financial requirements upon us and our dealerships. The Company’s dealership agreements with Peterbilt may be terminable by Peterbilt in the event the aggregate voting power of W. Marvin Rush and his family decreases below 30% with respect to the election of directors. These agreements also grant Peterbilt rights of first refusal under certain circumstances relating to any sale or transfer of our dealership locations or if certain Rush family members desire to sell more than 100,000 shares of our voting common stock within a 12-month period to anyone other than family members or certain other specified persons. 10 Any termination or non-renewal of these dealership agreements by Peterbilt must follow certain guidelines established by both state and federal legislation designed to protect dealers from arbitrary termination or non-renewal of franchise agreements. The Automobile Dealers Day in Court Act and other similar state laws provide that the termination or non-renewal of a dealership agreement must be done in “good faith” and upon a showing of “good cause” by the manufacturer for such termination or non-renewal, as such terms have been defined by statute and interpreted in case law. Other Truck Suppliers. In addition to our truck dealership agreements with Peterbilt, we are also an authorized dealer of trucks manufactured by various manufacturers at the following locations: Rush Truck Center Heavy-Duty Truck Lines Sold Medium-Duty Truck Lines Sold Alabama: Mobile Peterbilt Peterbilt Arizona: Phoenix Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Tucson Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO California: El Centro Peterbilt Peterbilt Escondido Peterbilt Peterbilt, HINO Fontana Heavy-Duty Peterbilt Peterbilt Fontana Medium-Duty None Peterbilt, HINO, UD, GMC, Isuzu Pico Rivera Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD San Diego Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Sylmar Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD Colorado: Denver Peterbilt Peterbilt Greeley Peterbilt Peterbilt Florida: Haines City Peterbilt Peterbilt Orlando Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD, GMC, Isuzu Tampa Peterbilt Peterbilt Winter Garden Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD New Mexico: Albuquerque Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD 11 Rush Truck Center Heavy-Duty Truck Lines Sold Medium-Duty Truck Lines Sold Oklahoma: Tulsa Peterbilt, Volvo Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Oklahoma City Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Ardmore Peterbilt Peterbilt Tennessee: Nashville Peterbilt Peterbilt Texas: Alice Peterbilt Peterbilt Austin Peterbilt Peterbilt, HINO, UD, GMC, Isuzu Dallas Heavy-Duty Peterbilt Peterbilt Dallas Medium-Duty None Peterbilt, HINO, UD, GMC El Paso Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC Fort Worth Peterbilt Peterbilt, UD Houston Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Laredo Peterbilt Peterbilt Lufkin Peterbilt Peterbilt Pharr Peterbilt Peterbilt, HINO San Antonio Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, HINO Sealy Peterbilt Peterbilt Texarkana Peterbilt Peterbilt, GMC, Isuzu Tyler Peterbilt Peterbilt Sales of non-Peterbilt medium-duty trucks accounted for less than 3.7% of our total revenues for 2005. These dealership agreements have current terms expiring between June 2006 and October 2010. These dealership agreements impose operating requirements upon us and require consent from the affected supplier for sale or transfer of such dealership agreement. John Deere. We have entered into a nonexclusive dealership agreement with John Deere which authorizes us to act as a dealer of John Deere construction, utility and forestry equipment. This John Deere dealership agreement has no specified term or duration. Our current area of responsibility for the sale of John Deere construction equipment is the greater Houston, Texas metropolitan area. The John Deere dealership agreement imposes operational obligations and financial requirements of the Company. Like the dealership agreements with Peterbilt, the dealership agreement with John Deere is terminable if W. Marvin Rush’s percentage ownership of the Company falls below 25%, grants limited rights of first refusal and imposes certain financial requirements upon us and our dealership. Other Construction Equipment Suppliers. In addition to John Deere, we are an authorized dealer for suppliers of other construction equipment. The terms of such arrangements vary, but most of these dealership agreements contain termination provisions allowing the supplier to terminate the agreement after a specified notice period (usually 180 days). Floor Plan Financing Trucks. We finance substantially all of our new truck inventory and the loan value of our used truck inventory under a floor plan arrangement with GE Capital. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $302.8 million outstanding under our GE Capital floor plan arrangement. Our GE Capital floor plan financing agreement provides for a three-year revolving credit facility which expires in September 2008. The current interest rate is the LIBOR rate plus 1.68%. Construction Equipment. We finance substantially all of our new construction equipment inventory under floor plan facilities with John Deere and CitiCapital. Our John Deere facility has no set expiration date and its interest rate is the prime rate plus 1.5%. Our CitiCapital facility expires February 2007 and the current interest rate is the 30-day LIBOR rate 12 plus 3.0%. As of December 31, 2005, we had $3.1 million outstanding under the floor plan arrangement with John Deere and $10.1 million outstanding under the floor plan arrangement with CitiCapital. Product Warranties The manufacturers we represent provide retail purchasers of their products with a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship, excluding certain specified components that are separately warranted by the suppliers of such components. We do not undertake to provide any warranty to our customers. We generally sell used trucks and construction equipment in “as is” condition without manufacturer’s warranty, although manufacturers sometimes will provide a limited warranty on their used products if such products have been properly reconditioned prior to resale or if the manufacturer’s warranty on such product is transferable and has not expired. We do not provide any warranty on used trucks or used construction equipment. Trademarks The Peterbilt, John Deere, Volvo, GMC, Hino, Isuzu and UD trademarks and trade names, which are used in connection with our marketing and sales efforts, are subject to limited licenses included in our dealership agreements with each manufacturer. The licenses are for the same periods as our dealership agreements. These trademarks and trade names are recognized internationally and are important in the marketing of our products. Each licensor engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection. We hold registered trademarks from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the names “Rush Enterprises,” “Rush Truck Center” and “Rush Equipment Center.” We currently have a trademark application for “Chrome Country” pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Employees On December 31, 2005, the Company had 2,507 employees. The Company has no contracts or collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and has never experienced work stoppages. The Company consider our relations with our employees to be good. Seasonality The Company’s heavy-duty truck business is moderately seasonal. Seasonal effects on new truck sales related to the seasonal purchasing patterns of any single customer type are mitigated by the diverse geographic locations of our dealerships and the Company’s diverse customer base, including regional and national fleets, local governments, corporations and owner operators. However, truck parts and service operations historically have experienced higher sales volumes in the second and third quarters. Seasonal effects in the construction equipment business are primarily driven by the weather. Seasonal effects on construction equipment sales related to the seasonal purchasing patterns of any single customer type are mitigated by the Company’s diverse customer base that includes contractors for residential and commercial construction, utility companies, federal, state and local government agencies, and various petrochemical, industrial and material supply type businesses that require construction equipment in their daily operations. Backlog On December 31, 2005, the Company’s backlog of truck orders was approximately $584.0 million as compared to a backlog of truck orders of approximately $324.0 million on December 31, 2004. The Company includes only confirmed orders in its backlog. It currently takes between 14 days and six months for the Company to receive delivery of a truck once a customer special order is placed depending on the truck specifications and demand for the particular model ordered. The Company sells the majority of its new trucks by customer special order, with the remainder sold out of inventory. Orders from a number of the Company’s major fleet customers are included in the Company’s backlog as of December 31, 2005. 13 Environmental Standards and Other Governmental Regulations Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations designed to protect the environment by regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. EPA emission guidelines have a major impact on our operations. The EPA mandated that diesel engine manufacturers meet new, stricter emissions guidelines regarding nitrous oxides for all engines built subsequent to October 1, 2002 and the EPA has placed additional guidelines, further restricting the emissions of nitrous oxides for all diesel engines built subsequent to January 1, 2007. In early 2002, the heavy-duty truck industry experienced an increased demand for trucks, as it historically has in the months preceding the effective date of a change in EPA emission guidelines; this period of increased demand was followed by a decrease in demand in the months subsequent to the change. The Company believes that the 2007 emission guidelines will cause demand for heavy-duty trucks to remain high through 2006 as some purchasers accelerate their normal purchase cycles to avoid purchasing 2007 engines. The Company expects a decrease in demand for trucks in the first half of 2007 due to the emissions guidelines. The severity of the decrease in demand for trucks in 2007 will depend upon several factors including, without limitation, new diesel engine prices, the results of tests on the new diesel engines designed to meet the 2007 standards and projected maintenance and operation costs of the new diesel engines and general economic conditions. Industry expectations are for the new engines to add $6,000 to $8,000 to the cost of a new Class 8 truck and increase maintenance and operating costs. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we recommend that you carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent upon PACCAR for the supply of Peterbilt trucks and parts, the sale of which generate substantially all of our revenues. We currently operate as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks and parts pursuant to dealership agreements with Peterbilt. Peterbilt is a division of PACCAR. During 2005, a significant portion of our revenues resulted from sales of trucks purchased from Peterbilt and parts purchased from PACCAR. Due to our dependence on PACCAR and its Peterbilt division, we believe that the long-term success of our Rush Truck Centers depends, in large part, on the following: • maintaining our relationship with PACCAR; • the manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality Peterbilt trucks and parts by PACCAR in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements; • PACCAR’s consent to our future acquisition of Peterbilt dealerships; • the overall success of PACCAR and Peterbilt; • PACCAR’s promotion of its Peterbilt division; • the goodwill associated with the Peterbilt trademark, which can be adversely affected by decisions made by PACCAR and the owners of other Peterbilt dealerships; and • the management of the Peterbilt dealership system by PACCAR. We have no control over the management or operation of PACCAR or Peterbilt dealerships that we do not own. Our dealership agreements may be terminable upon a change of control and we cannot control whether or not our largest shareholder and management maintain their current positions. 14 We have entered into nonexclusive dealership agreements with Peterbilt that authorize us to act as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks. Peterbilt may terminate our dealership agreements in the event of a change of control of the Company or if we violate any number of provisions in the dealership agreements. Under our Peterbilt dealership agreements, a change of control occurs if (i) with respect to the election of directors, the aggregate voting power held by W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, W. Marvin Rush’s family members and other Rush executives decreases below 30% (such persons currently control 31.3% of the voting power with respect to the election of directors); or (ii) any person or entity other than W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush and other Rush executives or any person or entity who has been approved in writing by PACCAR, either (x) owns common stock with a greater percentage of the voting power with respect to the election of our directors than W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush and other Rush executives, in the aggregate, or (y) holds the office of Chairman of the Board, President or Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We have no control over the transfer or disposition by W. Marvin Rush or by his estate of his common stock. If W. Marvin Rush were to sell his class B common stock or bequest his class B common stock to nonfamily members or if his estate is required to liquidate his class B common stock to pay estate taxes or otherwise, the change of control provisions of the Peterbilt dealership agreements may be triggered and cause us to lose our critical right to sell Peterbilt products. Our John Deere dealership agreement and some of our medium-duty truck dealership agreements are also terminable if the voting power of W. Marvin Rush and his family falls below certain percentages, typically 25%. If our dealership agreements with any manufacturer we currently represent are terminated, we will lose the right to purchase such manufacturer’s products and the right to use certain trademarks, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, nonrenewal or renegotiation of their dealership agreements. Our dealership agreements impose certain operational obligations and financial requirements on us. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealership agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate dealerships, our manufacturers may be able to terminate our dealership agreements without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, or if such laws are weakened, we will be subject to higher risk of termination or non-renewal of our dealership agreements. Termination or non-renewal of our dealership agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability. Our dealership agreements have relatively short terms which could result in non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal. Our Peterbilt dealership agreements have current terms expiring between March 2006 and January 2008. Our Volvo dealership agreement has a current terms expiring August 2010. Our dealership agreements with GMC, Hino, UD and Isuzu for the sale of medium-duty trucks have current terms expiring between June 2006 and October 2010. Upon expiration of each agreement, we must request and negotiate a renewal. In many states state dealer franchise laws restrict the manufacturer’s ability to refuse to renew dealership agreements or to impose new terms upon renewal. To the extent such laws do permit non-renewal or imposition of new terms, the relatively short terms will give the manufacturers the opportunity to exercise such rights. Any non-renewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal could have an adverse impact on our business. We depend on relationships with component suppliers for sales incentives, discounts and similar programs which are material to our operations. Each heavy-duty truck we sell is custom-built and each of our customers can choose components from any one of several component suppliers to construct their truck. Therefore, our dealerships depend on the component suppliers for sales incentives, discounts, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote our use of their components. Most of the incentives and discounts are individually negotiated and not always the same as those made available to our competitors. These incentives and discounts are material to our operations. A reduction or discontinuation of a component supplier’s incentive program could materially adversely affect our profitability. 15 Substantial competition may affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition for customers and for suitable dealership locations. We compete with a large number of independent and factory-owned dealers, some of which operate in more than one location, but most of which operate in a single location. There is significant competition both within the markets we currently serve and in markets that we may enter. Moreover, our Peterbilt dealership arrangements with PACCAR do not contractually provide us with exclusive dealerships in any territory. PACCAR could elect to create additional Peterbilt dealers in our market areas in the future. While Peterbilt dealership agreements, including ours, restrict dealers from operating sales or service facilities outside their assigned territory, such agreements do not restrict fleet or other sales or marketing activity outside the assigned territory. Accordingly, we engage in fleet sales and other marketing activities outside our assigned territories and other Peterbilt dealers may engage in similar activities within our territories. Dealer competition continues to increase and is affected by a number of factors including the accessibility of dealership locations, the number of dealership locations, product pricing, product value, product quality, product design and customer service (including technical service). We anticipate that we will continue to face strong competition in the future. We may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain adequate inventory levels. The heavy-duty truck business requires inventories of trucks held for sale to be maintained at dealer locations in order to facilitate immediate sales to customers on demand. We generally purchase truck inventories with the assistance of a floor plan financing agreement through GE Capital that provides for payment at the earlier of the time of sale for each truck financed or at a fixed date following delivery. In the event that our financing becomes insufficient to satisfy its future requirements, we would need to obtain similar financing from other sources. There is no assurance that such additional floor plan financing or alternate financing could be obtained or, if obtained, that it will be on commercially reasonable terms. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel. We believe that our success depends significantly upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management and key employees, including, in particular, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. ”Rusty” Rush. Additionally, our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as executive officers, managers and sales personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with certain executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team, including, in particular, W. Marvin Rush or W. M. ”Rusty” Rush, could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract additional qualified executive officers, managers and sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our business strategy. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future earnings. As of December 31, 2005, our backlog of new truck orders was approximately $584.0 million. Our backlog is determined quarterly by multiplying the number of new trucks for each particular type of truck on order at our Rush Truck Centers by the recent average selling price for that type of truck. We only include confirmed orders in our backlog. However, such orders are subject to cancellation. In the event of order cancellation, we have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. It currently takes between 14 days and six months for us to receive delivery of a truck once a customer special order is placed depending on the truck specifications and demand for the particular model ordered. We sell the majority of our new heavy-duty trucks by customer special order, with the remainder sold out of inventory. Orders from a number of our major fleet customers are included in our backlog as of December 31, 2005. There can be no assurance that our major fleet customers will not cancel these orders. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenue and profit we actually receive from orders projected in our backlog. If we were to experience significant cancellations of orders in our backlog, our financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. 16 If Texas law were changed to impose the Texas franchise tax or new taxes on the assets or income of our subsidiary limited partnership, the amount of taxes we pay could increase significantly. Under current law, Texas imposes a franchise tax (which is based in part on net income) on corporations and limited liability companies that conduct business in Texas, but the Texas franchise tax is not currently imposed on limited partnerships that conduct business in Texas or on corporations and limited liability companies that are limited partners in such limited partnerships if the limited partners do not otherwise conduct business in Texas. A substantial portion of our assets located in Texas are held in Rush Truck Centers of Texas, L.P., a limited partnership, the limited partners of whom are subsidiary corporations. As a result, no Texas franchise tax is currently imposed on the assets or income of Rush Truck Centers of Texas, L.P. On November 22, 2005, the Supreme Court of Texas held that the system for funding Texas public schools violates the provision of the Texas Constitution prohibiting a state property tax. In response to this recent decision, the Governor of Texas has said that he will call a special session of the Texas Legislature to address the constitutional deficiencies in the current public school finance system and has further stated that the entire tax system needs substantial reform. In past sessions of the Texas Legislature, several bills to address the public school finance system were introduced that would have subjected limited partnerships to the Texas franchise tax or would have subjected corporations and limited liability companies that are limited partners in limited partnerships to the Texas franchise tax, even if such corporations and limited liability companies did not otherwise conduct business in Texas. If such a bill is enacted by the Texas Legislature or new laws are enacted that subject the assets or income of our subsidiary limited partnership to new taxes, whether enacted in the anticipated special session or in any later session, the amount of taxes we pay will increase significantly. Our dealerships are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks; the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other materials; and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with truck or construction equipment dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. Operations involving the management of hazardous and nonhazardous materials are subject to requirements of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes. Our business also involves the operation of storage tanks containing such materials. Storage tanks are subject to periodic testing, containment, upgrading and removal under RCRA and comparable statutes. Furthermore, investigation or remediation may be necessary in the event of leaks or other discharges from current or former underground or aboveground storage tanks. We may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment, or disposal facilities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and comparable state statutes, which impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. Similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations. Soil and groundwater contamination is known to exist at some of our current properties. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with our dispositions, or prior dispositions made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material. Compliance with current or amended, or new or more stringent, laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws or the future discovery of environmental conditions could require additional expenditures by us, and those expenditures could be material. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by a single shareholder and his affiliates. W. Marvin Rush owns approximately 0.01% of our issued and outstanding shares of class A common stock and 34.9% of our issued and outstanding class B common stock. As a result of such ownership, Mr. Rush will have the power to 17 effectively control us, including the election of directors, the determination of matters requiring shareholder approval and other matters pertaining to corporate governance. The class A common stock has limited voting power. Each share of class A common stock ranks substantially equal to each share of class B common stock with respect to receipt of any dividends or distributions declared on shares of common stock and the right to receive proceeds on liquidation or dissolution of us after payment of our indebtedness and liquidation preference payments to holders of preferred shares. However, holders of class A common stock have 1/20th of one vote per share on all matters requiring a shareholder vote, while holders of class B common stock have one full vote per share. Our dealership agreements and our shareholder rights plan could discourage another company from acquiring us and impede our ability to issue additional stock to raise capital or as consideration for future acquisitions. A number of our dealership agreements impose restrictions on the sale and transfer of our common stock. These restrictions also may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. For example, under the Peterbilt dealership agreements, except as may be otherwise approved from time to time by Peterbilt, W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, W. Marvin Rush’s family members and other of our executives, in the aggregate, are required to retain a control of at least 30% of the voting power of our outstanding shares and voting power equal or superior to that of any other person or group. To reduce the risk of a change of control that might materially adversely affect our business or rights under our Peterbilt dealership agreements, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill.” In addition, W. Marvin Rush and members of his immediate family have granted Peterbilt a right of first refusal to purchase their respective shares of common stock in the event that any of such individuals desire to transfer in excess of 100,000 shares in any 12-month period to any person other than an immediate family member, an associate or a Dealer Principal (as defined in the Peterbilt dealership agreements). This right of first refusal, the number of shares owned by W. Marvin Rush, our adoption of the rights plan and the requirement in our dealership agreements that certain dealer principals retain a controlling interest in us, combined with the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without further vote or action by the shareholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control without further action by our shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent or delay a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable. We do not have the right to waive the right of first refusal or the terms of its dealership agreements in order to accept a favorable offer, but our Board of Directors may redeem the rights under the rights plan to accept a favorable offer. Actions by our shareholders or prospective shareholders that would violate any of the above restrictions on our dealership agreements are generally outside our control. If we are unable to renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more of our dealerships, which could have a material adverse effect on us. This may also inhibit our ability to acquire additional dealerships. These restrictions also may impede our ability to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 18 Item 