ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors discussed below should be considered carefully in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of these risk factors and other risks discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider all these risks and other information in this report before investing in Netopia. The fact that certain risks are endemic to our industry does not lessen the significance of the risk. If the proposed acquisition of Netopia by Motorola is not completed, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. On November 13, 2006, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with Motorola. Completion of the merger requires certain regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. The merger is expected to close in the first calendar quarter of 2007, but the merger may not be completed in the expected time period or at all. If our merger agreement with Motorola is terminated, the market price of our common stock will likely decline, because we believe that our market price reflects an assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. In addition, our stock price may be adversely affected as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the proposed merger that will not be recovered if it is not completed. If the merger agreement is terminated, we may be obligated under certain circumstances to pay Motorola a termination fee of $7.3 million plus certain third-party expenses. As a consequence of the failure of the merger to be completed, as well as of some or all of these potential effects of the termination of the merger agreement, our business could be materially and adversely affected. While the merger is pending, current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with Motorola, which may materially adversely affect the ability of Netopia to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain employed by Motorola following the merger. Furthermore, diversion of attention from ongoing operations on the part of management and employees could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties. Also, while the merger is pending, customers may delay or defer decisions to purchase our products and services, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, customers may experience uncertainty about continued development and support of products and services after the merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and to retain existing customers. We have a history of losses. We may incur losses and negative cash flow in the future, which could significantly harm our business. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we incurred net losses of $3.6 million and $7.1 million, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $27.8 million at September 30, 2006. While we generated cash in fiscal year 2006, we may not be able to reach, sustain or increase profitability or generate cash on a quarterly or annual basis in the future, which could significantly harm our business. We may find it difficult to raise needed capital in the future, which could delay or prevent introduction of new products or services, require us to reduce our business operations or otherwise significantly harm our business. We must continue to enhance and expand our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position and to increase our market share. As a result, and due to any future net losses and use of cash, the continuing operations of our business may require capital infusions. Whether or when we can achieve cash flow levels sufficient to support our operations cannot be accurately predicted. Unless such cash flow levels are achieved, we may require additional borrowings or the sale of debt or equity securities, sale of non-strategic 14 Table of Contents assets, or some combination thereof, to provide funding for our operations. We believe we have cash, cash equivalents and borrowing capacity adequate to meet our anticipated capital needs for the next twelve months. However, if we are unable to obtain additional funds to finance our operations when needed, our financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected and we would not be able to operate our business. If we are unable to resolve the private securities class action, the derivative actions and litigation related to and arising out of the restatements of our consolidated financial statements for prior periods in a timely and economic manner, our business could be significantly harmed. We currently are named as a defendant in a consolidated private securities class action. In addition, there are derivative actions pending in state and federal court in California. We also have learned that the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California has opened an investigation following a referral by the SEC. We do not know the scope or focus of the investigation by the United States Attorney’s office. If we were unsuccessful in defending against this or other investigations or proceedings, we could face civil or criminal penalties that would seriously harm our business and results of operations. In December 2006, we reached a proposed settlement in principle of the securities class litigation contingent upon a number of factors, including the closing of the acquisition by Motorola and the entering into of a binding agreement regarding the settlement. There can be no assurance that the settlement in principle will become a binding agreement and that all other contingencies to the settlement will be satisfied. We also have reached a settlement of the state derivative action, subject to court approval. Defending against the government investigations, the private securities class action, the derivative actions and other litigation matters has required significant attention and resources of management and, regardless of the outcome, has and may further result in significant legal expense. If our defenses ultimately are unsuccessful, or if the settlements reached do not become effective, we could be liable for large damage awards that could seriously harm our business and results of operation. While we have provided notice of the government investigations and the litigation matters described above to our directors and officers liability insurance carriers, the insurance carriers have raised certain coverage issues and to date have not reimbursed us for all legal expenses incurred, and may not agree that they are responsible to pay any damages that ultimately could be awarded to the plaintiffs. Furthermore, we have only a limited amount of insurance, and even if our insurers agree to make payments under the policies, the legal expenses and damage awards or settlements may be greater than the amount of insurance, and we would in all cases be liable for any amounts in excess of our insurance policy limits. Substantial sales of our broadband equipment will not occur unless telecommunications carriers and service providers continue to expand their deployments of DSL and other broadband services, and without continued expansion our revenues may decline, which could significantly harm our business. The success of our broadband equipment depends upon the extent to which telecommunications carriers and service providers continue to expand their deployments of DSL and other broadband services. Factors that have impacted such deployments include: • Lengthy approval processes followed by carriers and service providers, including laboratory tests, technical trials, marketing trials, initial commercial deployment and full commercial deployment; • Improved business opportunities provided by deployment of broadband services by our carrier and other customers; • Lack of compatibility of DSL equipment that is supplied by different manufacturers; • Rapidly changing industry standards for DSL and other broadband technologies; and • Government regulations. We offer to carriers and service providers the opportunity to bundle basic DSL connectivity with value-added features that enable the provider to bundle differentiated features and services that we believe can justify 15 Table of Contents higher recurring revenues from end users. These features and services include VPNs, remote management and configuration using our NBBS software platform, and hosting of eSites and eStores. We can offer no assurance that our strategy of enabling bundled service offerings will be widely accepted. If telecommunications carriers and service providers do not continue to expand their deployments of DSL and other broadband services, our revenues could decline and our business could be significantly harmed. We expect our revenues to be increasingly dependent on our ability to sell our broadband equipment to Independent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs), and we may incur losses if we cannot successfully market and sell our products through ILEC channels. ILECs have been aggressively marketing DSL services principally focusing on residential services. We have committed resources to expand our sales in the ILEC channel both domestically and internationally. There continue to be barriers associated with such sales including, but not limited to, lengthy product evaluation cycles, the difficulty in dislodging competitors whose products are currently being utilized, long-term product deployment cycles and intense price competition. ILECs currently obtain equipment from our competitors, which include 2Wire, Inc., Westell Technologies, Inc., Siemens AG (through its Siemens Subscriber Networks, Inc. subsidiary, formerly known as Efficient Networks), Actiontec Electronics, Inc., Thomson Corporation and ZyXEL Communications Co., which have proven to be strong competitors. All of these competitors are larger than us and may have greater financial resources. There is no guarantee we will be successful in expanding our presence in the ILEC market. If we fail to further penetrate the ILEC market for our products and services, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We expect our revenues to be increasingly dependent on our ability to develop and sell our broadband equipment into the residential broadband gateway market. Prior to our acquisition of Cayman in October 2001, we developed, marketed and sold broadband equipment products primarily to CLECs and ISPs serving the small business market for DSL Internet connectivity. With our current products and technology, we now are competing for sales of broadband equipment to ILECs serving the residential market. There are numerous risks associated with the residential broadband gateway market including, but not limited to: • The ability to design and develop products that meet the needs of the residential market; • The ability to market these products successfully to ILECs and to dislodge competitors that are currently supplying residential-class broadband gateways; and • Intense price pressure. If we are unable to increase our sales into the residential broadband gateway market, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The loss of, or decline in, purchases by one or more of our key customers would result in a significant decline in our revenues and harm our business. We rely on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 2005, there were two and three customers, respectively, that each individually represented at least 10% of our revenues and in the aggregate our top five customers, accounted for 68% and 64%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our largest customer, BellSouth Corporation, has entered into an agreement pursuant to which it will merge into AT&T (formerly SBC) following regulatory and shareholder approvals. While AT&T also is one of our largest customers, we believe that our market share is larger at BellSouth than at AT&T, which we believe buys a significantly larger volume of broadband equipment from 2Wire, Inc., one of our competitors. AT&T also recently made an investment in 2Wire. There is no guarantee that BellSouth will continue to buy our broadband equipment in the same volumes following the merger with AT&T. Certain of our other major customers also are reported from time to time in the press to be acquisition targets. The telecommunications 16 Table of Contents industry generally is experiencing consolidation as companies merge and acquire other companies. Our revenues will decline and our business may be significantly harmed if one or more of our significant customers stop buying our products, or reduce or delay purchases of our products for any reason, including industry consolidation. Substantial portions of our revenues are derived from sales to international customers, and currency fluctuations can adversely impact our operations. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales to international customers, mainly in Europe. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, our international sales represented 40% and 36%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect sales to international customers to continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues. Sales of broadband equipment products to certain of our European customers are denominated in Euros and Swiss francs. For our international sales that continue to be denominated in United States dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products and services to become relatively more expensive to our foreign customers, which could result in decreased sales of our products and services. In addition, changes in the value of the Euro and the Swiss franc relative to the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results to the extent we do not adequately hedge sales denominated in Euros and Swiss francs. Additional risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our international operations, which principally are in Europe, are subject to a number of difficulties and special costs, including, but not limited to: • Costs of customizing products for foreign countries; • Laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • Compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Import and export restrictions and tariffs; • Difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and • Multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations. In addition, if we establish more significant operations overseas, we may incur additional costs that would be difficult to reduce quickly because of employee-related laws and practices in those countries. Because the markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and some of our competitors are larger, better established and have more cash resources, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We sell products and services in markets that are highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and service offerings and new competitors enter the market. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and could cause loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size, scope and breadth of the products and services offered. In the market for broadband equipment, we primarily compete with 2Wire, Inc., Westell Technologies, Inc., Siemens AG (through its Siemens Subscriber Networks, Inc. subsidiary, formerly known as Efficient Networks), Actiontec Electronics, Inc., Thomson Corporation and ZyXEL Communications Co. In the market for our 17 Table of Contents broadband software and services products, we primarily compete with Motive, Inc., 2Wire, Inc., SupportSoft, Inc., Altiris, Inc., Axeda Systems, CrossTec Corporation, Citrix Systems, Inc., LANDesk Software, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Symantec Corporation, WebEx and open source initiatives. Many of our current and potential competitors in all product areas have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger base of customers than ours. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of these industries. In the past, we have lost potential customers to competitors in all product areas for various reasons, including lower prices and other incentives not matched by us. Current and potential competitors also may have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products and services to address customer needs. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate because of many factors and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future from quarter to quarter. For example, during the past eight quarters ended September 30, 2006, our revenues have ranged from $23.4 million to $31.0 million, and our net results have ranged from $600 thousand of income to a loss of $2.3 million. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of any one quarter or series of quarters as an indication of our future performance. In certain quarters in the past, our operating results were below the expectations of securities analysts. If the Motorola acquisition does not close, it is likely that in some future quarter, quarters or year, our operating results again will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. When our operating results are below such expectations, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. In addition to the uncertainties and risks described elsewhere under this “Risk Factors” heading, variations in our operating results will likely be caused by factors related to the operation of our business, including, but not limited to: • Variations in the timing and size of orders for our broadband equipment products; • Increased price competition for our broadband equipment products; • Our ability to license, and the timing of licenses, of our broadband software and services; • The mix of products and services and the gross margins associated with such products and services, including the impact of our increased sales of lower margin broadband equipment as a percentage of our total revenues and increased sales of lower margin residential-class ADSL products within our family of broadband equipment; • The price and availability of components for our broadband equipment; • Foreign currency fluctuations; and • The timing and size of expenses, including operating expenses and expenses of developing new products and product enhancements. Other technologies for the broadband gateway market compete with DSL services. DSL services compete with a variety of different broadband services, including cable, satellite and other wireless technologies. Many of these technologies compete effectively with DSL services. If any technology competing with DSL technology is more reliable, faster, less expensive, reaches more customers or has other 18 Table of Contents advantages over DSL technology, then the demand for our DSL products and services and our revenues and gross margins will decrease. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop and introduce products for these competing technologies. We purchase the semiconductor chips for our broadband equipment from a limited number of suppliers, and the inability to obtain in a timely manner a sufficient quantity of chips at an economic price would adversely affect our business. All of our broadband equipment products rely on special semiconductor chips that we purchase from fewer than five suppliers. We do not have volume purchase contracts with any of our suppliers and they could cease selling to us at any time. In addition, our suppliers change their selling prices frequently in response to market trends, which may include increased demand industry-wide. Because we generally have been unable to pass component price increases along to our customers, our gross margins and operating results have been harmed as a result of component price increases. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of these semiconductor chips in a timely manner for any reason, sales of our broadband equipment products could be delayed or halted. Further, we could also be forced to redesign our broadband equipment products and qualify new suppliers of semiconductor chip sets. The resulting stoppage or delay in selling our products and the expense of redesigning our products would adversely affect our business. If we were unable to obtain components and manufacturing services for our broadband equipment from independent contractors and specialized suppliers, our business would be harmed. We do not manufacture any of the components used in our products and perform only limited assembly on some products. All of our broadband equipment relies on components that are supplied by independent contractors and specialized suppliers. Furthermore, substantially all of our broadband equipment includes printed circuit boards that are manufactured by fewer than five contract manufacturers that assemble and package our products. We do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with these third parties and they could cease selling components to us at any time. Moreover, the ability of independent contractors and specialized suppliers to provide us with sufficient components for our broadband equipment also depends on our ability to accurately forecast our future requirements. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of components from independent contractors or specialized suppliers in a timely manner for any reason, sales of our broadband equipment could be delayed or halted. Similarly, if supplies of circuit boards or products from our contract manufacturers are interrupted for any reason, we will incur significant losses until we arrange for alternative sources. In addition, we may be required to pay premiums for components purchased from other vendors should our regular independent contractors and specialized suppliers be unable to timely provide us with sufficient quantity of components. To the extent we pay any premiums, our gross margins and operating results would be harmed. Further, we could also be forced to redesign our broadband equipment and qualify new suppliers of components. The resulting stoppage or delay in selling our products and the expense of redesigning our broadband equipment would seriously harm our reputation and business. Failure to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products and services in a timely manner could harm our competitive position and operating results. We compete in markets characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products and services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance, reliability, compatibility, and cost savings for our customers. We will need to continue to integrate our DSL modem and router technology with the architectures of leading central office equipment providers in order to enhance the reliability, ease-of-use and management functions of our broadband equipment. Our Netopia Broadband Server (NBBS) software platform enables network operations centers of broadband service providers the ability to remotely manage, support, and troubleshoot installed broadband gateways, thereby providing the potential for reducing support costs. We believe that NBBS can help differentiate our 19 Table of Contents products and services from those of our competitors. However, NBBS is a relatively new product that has required and is expected to continue to require significant investment of development resources and to date has not generated significant revenues, and we cannot provide any assurance that NBBS will be widely adopted by the customers to whom we are marketing it. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that when and if deployed in mass scale, NBBS will perform as expected or that it has no hidden bugs or defects. We may not be able to develop, introduce, enhance or market successfully these or other products and services necessary to our future success. In addition, any delay in developing, introducing or marketing these or other products would seriously harm our business. Many of our broadband equipment products and services are relatively new. You should consider our prospects in light of the difficulties we may encounter because these products are at an early stage of development in a rapidly evolving and intensely competitive market. For example, we may not correctly anticipate market requirements, or introduce rapidly new products that meet such requirements for performance, price, features and compatibility with other broadband equipment. Failure to continue to develop and market competitive products would harm our competitive position and operating results. We may experience declining gross margins due to price competition and an increase in sales of lower margin broadband equipment as a percentage of our total revenues. We expect that sales of our broadband equipment may account for a larger percentage of our total revenues in future periods. Because our broadband equipment products are sold at lower gross margins than our broadband software and services products, and sales volumes of our lower margin residential-class DSL products are increasing, our overall gross margins will likely decrease. Further, we expect that the market for broadband equipment will remain highly competitive and as a result, we will continue to lower the prices we charge for our broadband equipment. If the average selling price of our broadband equipment continues to decline faster than our ability to realize lower manufacturing and product costs, our gross margins related to such products, as well as our overall gross margins, are likely to decline. We may incur greater losses if we cannot successfully sell our broadband software and services products. We derive a substantial portion of the recurring revenues from our broadband software and services products from a small number of large customers. A substantial portion of our broadband software and services revenues are derived from the sale of higher margin software products for corporate help desks, mostly Timbuktu. For the years ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, revenue from help desk applications were approximately 40% and 60%, respectively, of total revenues for our broadband software and services products. We anticipate that the market for Timbuktu may continue to decline or grow more slowly than the market for our other broadband software products and services. Most of the revenue that we generated to date from the NBBS software platform has been from two customers and expect to continue to make a significant investment of development resources. In addition, we rely on a small number of licensees to promote the use of our broadband software and services for building web sites and stores. We derive the majority of the recurring revenues from our broadband software and services products from fewer than five customers. The extent and nature of the promotions by licensees of our broadband software and services are outside of our control. If licensees of our eSite and eStore software do not successfully promote web sites and stores to their customers, our recurring revenues may decrease. If these customers were to choose a competitive platform, our recurring revenues would decline and adversely impact our results. If hosting services for our broadband software and services perform poorly, our revenue may decline and we could be sued. We depend on our servers, networking hardware and software infrastructure, and third-party service and maintenance of these items to provide reliable, high-performance hosting for eSite and eStore customers and subscribers to our parental controls service. In addition, our servers are located at third-party facilities. Failure or poor performance by third parties with which we contract for maintenance services could also lead to interruption 20 Table of Contents or deterioration of our parental controls, eSite and eStore hosting services. Additionally, a slowdown or failure of our systems for any reason could also lead to interruption or deterioration of our Site and eStore hosting services. In such a circumstance, our hosting and subscription revenues may decline. In addition, if our parental controls, eSite and eStore hosting services are interrupted, perform poorly, or are unreliable, we are at risk of litigation from our customers, the outcome of which could harm our business. Failure to attract or retain key personnel could harm our business. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management, product development and sales personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and geographic location is intense. Although we believe our personnel turnover rate is consistent with industry norms, our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. In addition, new hires frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected, and our products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may adversely impact our competitive position and require us to engage in costly litigation. We depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, and patent, copyright and trademark law. We presently hold one United States patent issued that relates to our remote control technology incorporated in most of our software products. The term of this patent is through August 2010. We also have filed patent applications relating to the design of our Wi-Fi gateways. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and there is no guarantee that the safeguards that we employ will protect our intellectual property and other valuable competitive information. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software and Internet industries regarding intellectual property rights. Although we have not been party to any such litigation, in the future third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property. The evaluation and defense of any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive. Furthermore, such claims could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on financially unattractive terms, which could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to license necessary software, firmware and hardware designs from third parties, our business could be harmed. We rely upon certain software, firmware and hardware designs that we license from third parties, including firmware that is integrated with our internally developed firmware and used in our products. We cannot be certain that these third-party licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of, or inability to maintain, such licenses could result in product shipment delays until equivalent firmware is developed or licensed, and integrated into our products, which would seriously harm our business. Our products are complex and may contain undetected or unresolved defects. Our products are complex and may contain undetected or unresolved defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. Although we historically have not experienced material problems with product defects, if our products do contain undetected or unresolved defects, we may lose market share, experience delays in or losses of market acceptance or be required to issue a product recall. Similarly, although we have not 21 Table of Contents experienced material warranty claims, if warranty claims exceed our reserves for such claims, our business would be seriously harmed. In addition, we would be at risk of product liability litigation because of defects in our products. Although we attempt to limit our liability to end users through disclaimers of special, consequential and indirect damages and similar provisions, we cannot assure you that such limitations of liability will be legally enforceable. Our industry may become subject to changes in regulations, which could harm our business. Our industry and industries on which our business depends may be affected by changes in regulations. For example, we depend on telecommunications service providers for sales of our broadband equipment, and companies in the telecommunications industry must comply with numerous regulations. If our industry or industries on which we depend become subject to regulatory changes that increase the cost of doing business or doing business with us, our revenues could decline and our business could be harmed. For example, if a regulatory agency imposed restrictions on DSL service that were not also imposed on other forms of high-speed Internet access, our business could be harmed. Business interruptions that prevent our ability to deliver products and services to our customers could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, labor disputes by transportation providers, and other events beyond our control. In particular, our headquarters are located near earthquake fault lines in the San Francisco Bay area and may be susceptible to the risk of earthquakes. If there is an earthquake in the region, our business could be seriously harmed. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us in the event we are unable to deliver products and services to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Our ability to maintain the listing standards on The NASDAQ Capital Market; • Variations in our quarterly operating results, including shortfalls in revenues or earnings from securities analysts’ expectations; • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • Changes in market valuations and volatility generally of securities of other companies in our industry; • Announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new products or enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • General conditions in the broadband communications industry. In recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future as it has in the past, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in market price of its securities. We currently are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation has resulted and, if the settlements reached do not become effective, is expected to continue to result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. 22 Table of Contents If our proposed merger with Motorola is not completed, a third party may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options has and will adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS 123(R), which is a revision of SFAS 123. SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not permit pro forma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. The adoption of the SFAS 123(R) fair value method effective as of October 1, 2005 has and will continue to have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations because the stock-based compensation expense is charged directly against our reported earnings. See Notes 2 and 9 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further details. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 23 Table of Contents 