Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding revenues, results of operations, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, the sufficiency of our cash for future operations, and the success of our preclinical, clinical and development programs and our dermatology franchise. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believe," "could increase the likelihood," "hope," "target," "project," "goals," "potential," "predict," "might," "expect," "intend," "is planned," "should," "will enable," "would be expected," "look forward," "may provide," "would," "may," "could," "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "continue," or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity would likely suffer. 22 If the merger contemplated by the definitive merger agreement entered into on February 25, 2008 with Galderma Laboratories, Inc. does not occur, we may have to pay a termination fee, will have incurred significant expenses and may experience disruption. On February 25, 2008, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Galderma Laboratories, Inc. The merger agreement provides for Galderma to commence a tender offer to acquire our common stock at a price of $16.60 per share in cash. In the second step, the tender offer will be followed by a merger in which the holders of the outstanding shares of our common stock not tendered in the offer will receive the same cash price per share paid in the tender offer. Upon completion of the merger, we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Galderma. The tender offer commenced on March 10, 2008 and the transaction is expected to close before the end of the second quarter of 2008. The transaction may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur resulting in a Company Material Adverse Effect, or if regulatory approvals are not forthcoming. The definitive merger agreement defines a "Company Material Adverse Effect" as any change, event, occurrence, state of facts or development which has a material adverse effect on (1) our, and our subsidiaries', business, results of operations or financial condition, taken as a whole or (2) our ability to perform our obligations under the merger agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement by the Outside Date (as defined in the merger agreement); provided that with respect to clause (1) above, Company Material Adverse Effect shall not include any changes, events, occurrences, state of facts or developments, to the extent arising out of or resulting from (i) changes after the date of the merger agreement in conditions generally in the United States or global economy or in the capital or financial markets, including changes in interest or exchange rates, (ii) changes after the date of the merger agreement in general legal, regulatory, political, economic or business conditions or changes in generally accepted accounting principles that, in either case, generally affect the industry in which we or our subsidiaries conduct business, (iii) the negotiation, execution, announcement or performance of the merger agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the impact thereof on relationships, contractual or otherwise, with customers, suppliers, distributors, partners, collaborators or employees, (iv) acts of war, sabotage or terrorism, or any escalation or worsening of any such acts of war, sabotage or terrorism threatened or underway as of the date of the merger agreement, (v) storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters, (vi) the initiation of any litigation by any of our stockholders relating to the merger agreement, the tender offer or the merger, (vii) any decline in the market price, or change in trading volume, of our common stock or any failure by us to meet publicly announced revenue or earnings projections; provided that the underlying changes, events, occurrences, state of facts or developments that caused or contributed to any such decline, change or failure may otherwise be taken into consideration in determining whether a Company Material Adverse Effect has occurred, (viii) any delay after the date of the merger agreement in any of our ongoing research programs resulting from any adverse changes, developments, circumstances, events or occurrences, or (ix) any action taken by us or any of our subsidiaries which is expressly required by the merger agreement or that has been expressly consented to by Galderma under the terms of the merger agreement, except in each of cases (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii), to the extent that such changes affect us or any of our subsidiaries in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the businesses and industries in which we or our subsidiaries operate. We may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances, including if our board of directors reasonably determines that it has received an unsolicited bona fide "Superior Proposal," as defined in the merger agreement. In the event of such termination, we would have to pay a fee of $12,600,000 to Galderma, or the Termination Fee, and certain fees and expenses of Galderma incurred in connection with the transactions up to $1,000,000. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, and within twelve (12) months after the date of such termination we enter 23 into a definitive agreement providing that, or consummates a transaction whereby, more than a majority of the assets of, or the equity interests in, us are acquired by a third party, we will be obligated to pay Galderma the Termination Fee and the payment of expenses on the date such agreement is entered into or such transaction is consummated, whichever is earlier. We cannot predict whether the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement will be satisified. As a result, we cannot assure you that the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement will be completed. If the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the merger agreement, or if the transactions are not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if the transaction contemplated by the merger agreement does not occur, we will nonetheless remain liable for significant extraordinary expenses that it has incurred related to the transaction. The majority of such expenses would relate to legal and banking fees and may be substantial. If the transaction contemplated by the definitive merger agreement entered into on February 25, 2008 with Galderma does not occur, we may also experience loss of key personnel and significant disruption in our sales and our organization. As a result there may be delays before we can achieve pre-transaction levels of activity in various functions, including sales and research and development, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and also affect the price of our common stock. In addition, failure to complete the contemplated transactions may substantially limit our ability to grow and implement our current business strategies. We depend heavily on the commercial success of Oracea. If we are unable to commercialize Oracea successfully, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our recent efforts and financial resources in the development of Oracea for the treatment of rosacea. Our ability to generate substantial product revenues from Oracea will depend heavily on the successful commercialization of Oracea. While we have generated revenue from Oracea since the product's July 2006 launch, it is premature to determine the future success and growth, if any, of the Oracea product brand. The success of Oracea will depend primarily on the acceptance of the product by patients, the medical community and third party payors. Although we currently derive additional revenue from marketing and/or selling other products other than Oracea (Periostat and the Primus products) our revenue and profitability in the near future will depend on our ability to market and sell Oracea successfully. We cannot rely on regulatory protections to prevent the approval of generic equivalents of our products. In connection with the regulatory approval process, some approved new drug products can obtain exclusivity that will prevent generic versions of the products from entering the marketplace for a period of time. In the United States, market exclusivity is available for new chemical entities and for significant changes in already approved drug products, such as a new use. Market exclusivity in the United States is, however, not available to drugs that contain an active ingredient that has already been approved as an antibiotic and marketed prior to 1998. On January 19, 2005, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia upheld the FDA's application of this principle to Periostat and determined that Periostat was not entitled to market exclusivity because its active ingredient, doxycycline, had previously been approved as an antibiotic. Because Oracea also contains doxycycline as its active ingredient, it will also not be entitled to market exclusivity. In the European Community regulatory market exclusivity is a function of how long the competent authorities may determine that data submitted in marketing approval applications may not be referenced by others. The period of so-called data exclusivity to which a new product may be entitled can vary from zero to eleven years to none at all. The length of the period depends on how a product is classified and can turn on the application of regulatory standards of which there has been no 24 authoritative interpretation to date. We cannot predict what period of data exclusivity, if any, may be enjoyed by Oracea in the European Community. With limited or no market exclusivity it could be more difficult for us to prevent competitors from seeking approval for copies of our proprietary products, and in such a case the value of such products would be materially adversely affected. Without market exclusivity, generic versions of our products could quickly gain market entry if they meet regulatory approval criteria. Thus, despite the FDA's May 2006 approval of Oracea, because it will not be entitled to market exclusivity, third parties may enter the market which would materially harm our business. If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for Oracea or our other product candidates, our ability to commercialize Oracea and our product candidates successfully will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold or obtain proprietary rights to some patents related to our current or future products and technologies, and we may not, under relevant patent laws, be considered to be inventors of technologies we believe we have developed. Because publications of discoveries in scientific literature lag behind actual discoveries, and such publications may not come to light despite diligent searches, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications. Similarly, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed or to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our patent applications. As a result, we may not be granted additional patents or our existing patents may be found to be invalid. We may also be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to market our proposed products. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to market the affected products. Our strategy depends on our ability to identify our discoveries rapidly and to seek patent protection for them. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or may result in patents that do not cover our future products. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of 25 patent interference proceedings and/or opposition proceedings. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. A number of our pending patent applications are related and include claims that are intended to cover Oracea. However, our issued patents relating to Oracea, and if issued, our other patents relating to Oracea and COL-118 may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once issued, any of our patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, the patent rights in our products that derive from claims under method of use patents may be hard to assert or enforce if medical professionals prescribe or dispense similar (including generic), though non-approved, doxycycline products for indications covered by our patents. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products and technologies that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our pursuit of business in the dermatology market will be successful. We continue to implement our plans to expand into the dermatology market. In May 2006, the FDA approved Oracea for the treatment of rosacea in adults, and in July 2006, we commenced our trade launch of Oracea in the United States. While we have begun to generate revenue from Oracea sales in connection with the product's July 2006 trade-launch, it is premature to determine the future success and growth, if any, of the Oracea product brand. We continue to seek additional product licensing opportunities to enhance our near-term offerings to the dermatology market. Even if we succeed in our efforts to identify and license additional products, it is not possible to guarantee that in licensed products will continue indefinitely to be available to us. For instance, on February 1, 2007, we received written notice of termination of our agreement with Altana Inc., which terminated our rights in Pandel effective November 1, 2007. The dermatology market is very competitive and some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: (i) achieve market acceptance for any current or future dermatological offerings, including acceptance from managed care and similar organizations; (ii) hire and retain personnel with experience in the dermatology market; (iii) execute our business plan with respect to this market segment; and (iv) adapt to technical or regulatory changes. At the same time, new product development is a lengthy, complex and uncertain process that will require significant attention and resources from management. A product candidate can fail at any stage of the development process due to, among other things, efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. We therefore cannot assure you that we will be successful in our pursuit of business in the dermatology market, or that we can sustain any business in which we achieve initial success. For instance, on September 26, 2007 and on November 6, 2007, we announced that we discontinued all development work on incyclinide for rosacea and acne indications, respectively. The success of our current technology platforms, and that of any other future technology platforms we may purchase or in-license, will depend on the quality and integrity of the technologies licensed or sold to us. Despite our due diligence and the safeguards we have in place, we cannot guarantee the effectiveness or integrity of such technologies, nor can we be certain that others do not have intervening rights in such technologies. If any of our in-licensed technologies proved ineffective, or if a 26 third party successfully asserted any right to such technologies, our ability to develop new products and implement our strategies would be materially adversely affected. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. Other than Oracea and Periostat, we have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Securing FDA and other comparable authority approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the FDA and other comparable authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon, among other things, the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA, and comparable authorities in other countries, have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could influence how a product candidate is classified and delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. Regulatory approval in one jurisdiction is not necessarily an indication of approvability in another jurisdiction. For instance, the coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures did not reach a unanimous decision concerning our application for European marketing authorization for Oracea and this application was recently referred to the CHMP. Referral to the CHMP may be a lengthy process and we cannot predict when, or if this body will approve our application. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. If we lose our sole supplier of doxycycline or our manufacturer of Oracea, our sales of Oracea will be interrupted, halted or less profitable. We do not have the resources, facilities or capabilities to manufacture any of our products or product candidates. We have no current plans to establish a manufacturing facility. We expect that we will be dependent on contract manufacturers for commercial scale manufacturing of our products or product candidates in accordance with regulatory standards. We rely on Hovione, as our sole supplier of both doxycycline hyclate and doxycycline monohydrate, and have no back-up supplier at this time. Doxycycline monohydrate is the active ingredient in Oracea. Hovione has two FDA-approved, validated manufacturing facilities that we believe will provide us with some protection against supply interruption. We are, however, seeking a back-up supplier, but there are relatively few alternative suppliers of doxycycline, and Hovione produces the majority of the doxycycline 27 used in the United States. Our current supply agreement with Hovione does not cover the purchase of doxycycline monohydrate, which is the active ingredient in Oracea. We are currently in discussions with Hovione to restructure our agreement so that it will cover doxycycline monohydrate. During the course of these discussions we have been purchasing doxycycline monohydrate on a purchase order by purchase order basis. The term of the supply agreement expires on May 14, 2008 and thereafter automatically renews for successive two-year periods unless, 90 days prior to the expiration of any such periods, either party gives the other party written notice of termination. In addition, in the event of a default, uncured for 90 days, the non-defaulting party can terminate the supply agreement effective immediately at the end of such ninety-day period. Although Hovione maintains two manufacturing locations, if we are unable to procure a commercial quantity of doxycycline from Hovione on an ongoing basis at a competitive price, if Hovione fails to comply with cGMP or if we cannot find a replacement supplier in a timely manner or with favorable pricing terms, our costs may increase significantly and we may experience delays in the supply and sale of Oracea. We entered into an agreement effective December 31, 2005 with Cardinal Health PTS, now known a Cardinal Health Catelent, or Catalent, pursuant to which Catalent has agreed to manufacture Oracea for us. We intend to contract with additional manufacturers for the commercial manufacture of an Oracea capsule. We believe, however, that it could take up to one year to validate successfully a secondary manufacturer. We cannot be certain that we will be able to enter into additional agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of doxycycline or Oracea on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If the federal regulatory status of Alcortin or Novacort changes, we may be unable to continue to market one or both of these products. We market two products, Alcortin and Novacort, under a Promotion and Cooperation Agreement with Primus. Sixty percent of sample product and promotion costs and all sales force compensation related to our promotion of Alcortin and Novacort are funded by us. Primus is responsible for the manufacture of Alcortin and Novacort and has not sought FDA approval for these products because Primus believes that no approval is required. We cannot be sure that FDA will not object to the lack of approval for these products. If the FDA were to assert that these products required approval, it could at any time seek to take administrative or judicial actions which could prevent us from marketing these products. Our inability to market these products could result in a temporary or permanent loss of revenue, which may be partially offset by a reduction in our promotional expenses related to these products. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements. Both before and after approval or clearance, we, our products and product candidates and our manufacturers are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to administrative and judicial sanctions. Both before and after approval or clearance of our products, we, our products and product candidates, and our manufacturers are subject to extensive regulatory requirements covering, among other things, manufacturing, advertising and promotion, labeling, adverse event reporting, post-approval commitments, registration, record-keeping, export, and distribution of samples. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in: •restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; •warning letters; •withdrawal of the products from the market; •refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; 28 •recall; •fines; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •refusal to permit the import or export of our products; •product seizure; and •injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We may be unable to raise additional capital if needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs and commercialization efforts. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in connection with our ongoing activities and that we will incur significant commercialization expenses as we expand our marketing and sales efforts. We will need additional funding to meet these additional expenses and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and commercialization activities. If we generate revenues and incur expenses at our anticipated levels, we anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the end of 2009. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing and sales; •the successful commercialization of Oracea and its acceptance by managed care organizations and other third party payors; •the success of our dermatology franchise; •the success of our prosecution of our patent applications related to the SansRosa technology and the use of COL-118 for the treatment of erythema associated with rosacea; •receipt and maintenance of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for our product candidates; •the success of our preclinical, clinical and development programs; •revenues and profits from sales of Oracea and our other product candidates; •the terms and conditions of our Series D-1 Stock; •our ability to continue to meet the covenant requirements under our amended revolving credit facility with SVB; •the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other patent-related costs, including potential litigation costs and the results of such litigation; •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies; •the success of our application for European Union Marketing Authorization for Oracea and in turn the success of MediGene AG, our foreign marketing partner for Oracea, in commercializing Oracea in the European Union; •the costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and clearances required to market and sell our products; and 29 •the receptivity of the capital markets to any future financings. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, research programs or products or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our clinical trials will be completed in a timely manner or will meet agreed upon end-points. As part of our plans to expand into the dermatology market, we will need to conduct extensive testing of our product candidates, pursuant to protocols that measure end points agreed with the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We cannot guarantee that Phase I, Phase II, or Phase III testing for our product candidates in development will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Many products that initially appear promising are found, after clinical evaluation, not to be safe and effective. Also, we, or the FDA, may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. For instance, on May 2, 2007, we learned that one patient had experienced apparent significant photo-toxicity, a known side effect of tetracyclines, while participating in the 40 mg cohort of our Phase II dose ranging trial of incyclinide. We suspended enrollment of all new patients in this study as a result. On May 7, 2007, we learned of another patient who had experienced apparent photo-toxicity and we announced that we had discontinued treatment of all enrolled patients. On September 26, 2007, we announced results of a Phase II dose-finding study designed to evaluate the safety and determine the therapeutic range of incyclinide for the treatment of rosacea. The study demonstrated that incyclinide was well tolerated with most adverse events being mild to moderate. However, the patients administered incyclinide did not demonstrate greater reduction in inflammatory lesions than the patients on placebo at any time point during the study and we discontinued all development work on incyclinide for a rosacea indication. On November 6, 2007, we announced that following a detailed cost, benefit and risk analysis in the fourth quarter of 2007, we had decided to discontinue all development work on incyclinide for an acne indication in order to focus our resources and energies on those projects in our pipeline that we believe have the greatest potential. Delays in patient enrollment in clinical trials may result in increased costs and delays, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products. It may take several years to complete the testing of a product, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. For example: •interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and results in early studies might not be seen in later studies; •potential products that appear promising at early stages of development may ultimately fail for a number of reasons, including the possibility that the products may be ineffective, less effective than products of our competitors or cause harmful side effects; 30 •any preclinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; •preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; •we may not be able to manufacture the investigational or commercial product in sufficient quantity or quality or at acceptable cost; •negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; •the FDA can place a hold on a clinical trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; •we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a drug or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval; and •our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy needed for our products to receive regulatory approval. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other studies or if the results of these trials or studies are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval or we may obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Significant clinical trial delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. If any of this occurs, our business will be materially impacted. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business. Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims 31 against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the USPTO and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. We depend upon third party researchers and providers of clinical services to perform as contractually required if we are to be successful in bringing new products to market. We do not have the ability independently to conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers for successful execution of our clinical trials, but do not control many aspects of their activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan, protocols for the trial and applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not, however, complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. Furthermore the data that they generate may not be accurate or may, in extreme cases, be fraudulent. Our ability to bring our future products to market depends on the quality and integrity of the data we present to regulatory authorities in order to obtain marketing authorizations. We cannot guarantee the authenticity or accuracy of such data, nor can we be certain that such data has not been fraudulently generated. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations would materially adversely affect our ability to develop and market new products and implement our strategies. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse customers for any of our approved products, they might not be purchased or used, and our revenues and profits will not develop or increase. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is: •a covered benefit under its health plan; •safe, effective and medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; and •neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. 32 Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or comparable authority. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare, Medicaid or other data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect payments for our products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and both CMS and other third-party payors may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Due in part to actions by third-party payors, the health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from government-funded and private payors for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, overall financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to establish, maintain and rely on new collaborative relationships, then we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies. We currently expect that the continued development of our technologies will result in the initiation of research and development efforts and additional clinical trials. We expect that these developments will require us to establish, maintain and rely on new collaborative relationships in order to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional collaborations or other alternative arrangements, and the terms of any such collaboration or alternative arrangement may not be favorable to us. There is no certainty that: •we will be able to enter into such collaborations on economically feasible and otherwise acceptable terms and conditions; •such collaborations will not require us to undertake substantial additional obligations or require us to devote additional resources beyond those we have identified at present; •any of our collaborators will not breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities on time, thereby delaying the development or commercialization of the technology for which the parties are collaborating; •our collaborators will agree to provided us with any rights in the intellectual property generated by such collaborations; and •the parties will not dispute the ownership rights to any technologies developed under such collaborations. 33 Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. We may in the future acquire complementary companies, products and technologies. Such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: •we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate a future impairment charge; •we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; •we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies; •we may face product liability risks associated with the sale of the acquired company's products; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; •we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third-parties; and •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our overall financial condition and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as of acquired in-process research and development costs) and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. We depend upon certain key relationships to generate much of the technology required to maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. Our IMPACS technology is licensed under the SUNY License and academic and research institutions collaborating with SUNY. Under the SUNY License, we have an exclusive worldwide license to SUNY's rights in certain patents and patent applications to make and sell products employing tetracyclines to treat certain disease conditions. The SUNY License imposes various payment and reporting obligations on us, and our failure to comply with these requirements permits SUNY to terminate the SUNY License. If the SUNY License is terminated, we would lose our right to exclude competitors from commercializing similar products, and we could be excluded from marketing the same products if SUNY licensed the underlying technology to a competitor after terminating the SUNY License. The SUNY License is terminable by SUNY on 90 days prior notice only upon our failure to make timely payments, reimbursements or reports, if the failure is not cured by us within 90 days. The termination of the SUNY License, or the failure to obtain and maintain patent protection 34 for our technologies, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. If our products cause injuries, we may incur significant expense and liability. Our business may be adversely affected by potential product liability claims arising out of the testing, manufacturing and marketing of, Oracea, Periostat and other products developed by or for us or for which we have licensing or promotion and cooperation rights. We continually evaluate the limits and adequacy of our product liability insurance coverage and currently have an aggregate of $10.0 million in product liability insurance covering Oracea, Periostat and our product candidates and products for which we have licensing or promotion and cooperation rights. Our insurer has also notified us that our general product liability policy will not cover claims arising from our past sales of Vioxx, to the extent such claims are made after December 31, 2004. This does not affect our rights under the Co-Promotion Agreement with Merck, which provides for indemnification of us by Merck against any claims arising from manufacturing or design defects in the Vioxx product or for which we, as the seller of the product, may be strictly liable as a seller of an inherently dangerous product. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against product liability claims. Insufficient insurance coverage or the failure to obtain indemnification from third parties for their respective liabilities may expose us to product liability claims and/or recalls and could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to decline. Our stock price is highly volatile and, therefore, the value of your investment may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced dramatic price and volume fluctuations from time to time. These fluctuations may or may not be based upon any business or operating results. Our common stock may experience similar or even more dramatic price and volume fluctuations that may continue indefinitely. The following table sets forth the high and low last sale prices per share for our common stock for each of the quarters in the period beginning January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market: Quarter Ended High Low March 31, 2005 $ 7.52 $ 4.50 June 30, 2005 $ 7.61 $ 3.99 September 30, 2005 $ 9.95 $ 7.15 December 31, 2005 $ 12.07 $ 8.50 March 31, 2006 $ 14.80 $ 11.27 June 30, 2006 $ 14.67 $ 10.52 September 30, 2006 $ 13.22 $ 8.52 December 31, 2006 $ 14.65 $ 11.35 March 31, 2007 $ 15.58 $ 12.70 June 30, 2007 $ 14.48 $ 9.91 September 30, 2007 $ 13.49 $ 8.98 December 31, 2007 $ 10.68 $ 7.49 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 35 