ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.Our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks that could cause actual operating and financial results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements, including the risks described below and the risks that may be identified in future documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC.GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSAdverse global macroeconomic and business conditions could negatively impact our business.It is difficult to predict how general global macroeconomics and business conditions will impact our business, our customers, our suppliers and freight rail transportation in general. An economic downturn or a recession that affects the countries where we operate or to where the goods we transport are exported, could negatively impact our business. While the global economy has recovered in recent years from the significant downturn in late 2008 and throughout 2009, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during 2010, 2011 and 2012 has been uneven, and uncertainty remains over the stability of the recovery. The recent economic improvements may not be broad-based or sustainable and may not enhance conditions in the markets relevant to us. For instance, in Australia, a significant portion of the commodities we transport are supporting economic growth and industrial development in Asian countries, particularly China, and a sustained slowdown in such countries could impact us. Slower growth in China, and the resulting impact on demand for, and lower prices of, natural resources could be a factor influencing decisions to delay and cancel certain mining projects in Australia. In addition, we anticipate benefiting from development of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids from shale regions in the United States, but continued low natural gas prices could reduce such development and the benefit we could realize. Further, the United States debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns and the possibility that the United States lawmakers may be unable to effectively reduce budget deficits have increased the possibility of a new economic slowdown or recession in the United States. Moreover, the eurozone debt crisis could lead to further political and financial turmoil, and to a destabilization of financial markets and the overall financial and euro monetary system.In addition, we are required to assess for potential impairment of non-current assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, including economic circumstances, indicate that the respective asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given the asset intensive nature of our business, weakness in the general economy increases the risk of significant asset impairment charges. A decline in current macroeconomic and financial conditions or commodity demand from economic activity and industrialization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Our inability to acquire or integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business.We may not be able to acquire or integrate acquired businesses successfully. Evaluating acquisition targets gives rise to additional costs related to legal, financial, operating and industry due diligence. In addition, acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. Integrating acquired businesses, including RailAmerica, could also result in significant unexpected costs. Further, the process of acquiring businesses may be disruptive to our existing business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others:•loss of key employees or customers;•possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems;•failure to maintain the safety or quality of services that have historically been provided;•failure to effectively integrate employees of rail lines acquired from other entities into our regional railroad culture;•unanticipated environmental or other liabilities;•failure to coordinate geographically disparate organizations; and•the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so.16These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, synergies, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. For example, while we expect the acquisition of RailAmerica to result in approximately $36 million of annual savings and other financial and operational benefits as described in "Part I Item I. Business" of this Annual Report, we may be unable to realize these savings or other benefits in the time frame that we expect or at all. Expected savings and benefits are frequently based on due diligence results and on extensive analyses that involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served, the ability to negotiate acceptable contractual arrangements, including renewals of leases with Class I railroads, operating costs, competitive factors and the ongoing cost of maintaining track infrastructure, many of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict. There is no guarantee that the due diligence results will be accurate or that the Company will not discover unanticipated liabilities. Further, while we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions are reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other benefits from these acquisitions may be offset by unexpected costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. For example, if key employees of RailAmerica depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become our employees, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of RailAmerica could be reduced or delayed. Finally, the physical conditions of the assets acquired may not materialize. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our anticipated synergies.Many of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of stock of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company, may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before our acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Generally, the representations made by the sellers, other than certain representations related to fundamental matters, such as ownership of capital stock, expire within several years of the closing. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or investments or manage our growth effectively, then we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully.Our growth strategy is based to a large extent on the selective acquisition and development of, and investment in, rail operations, both in new regions and in regions in which we currently operate. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things:•the availability of suitable opportunities;•the level of competition from other companies;•our ability to value acquisition and investment opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments;•our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with partners; and•the receipt of government approvals and financial constraints or other restrictions that may be specific to the particular company or asset to be acquired.We have experienced significant growth in the past, principally through the acquisition of additional railroads. Effective management of rapid growth presents challenges, including the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses effectively, the need to expand our management team and staff when necessary, the need to enhance internal operating systems and controls and the ability to consistently achieve targeted returns on capital. These challenges are more pronounced when we experience growth in numerous geographies and on a larger scale. We may not be able to maintain similar rates of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively.17We may need additional capital to fund our acquisitions and investments. If we are unable to obtain this capital at a reasonable cost, then we may forego potential opportunities, which would impair the execution of our growth strategy.Since January 1, 1996, we have acquired interests in 103 railroads, all of which were purchased for cash, and our growth strategy contemplates additional acquisitions. As of December 31, 2012, we had $64.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $396.3 million of undrawn revolver capacity available for acquisitions or other activities, subject to maintaining compliance with the covenants under our credit agreement. We intend to continue to review acquisition and investment opportunities and potential purchases of railroad assets and to attempt to acquire companies and assets that meet our investment criteria. As in the past, we expect that we will pay cash for some or all of the purchase price of acquisitions and purchases that we make. In addition, from time to time we may make investments in equipment and assets to support our customers. Depending on the number of acquisitions and investments and funding requirements, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions and costs on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may forego potential acquisitions, which could impair the execution of our growth strategy.We are dependent on lease agreements with Class I railroads and other third parties for our operations, strategy and growth.In North America, our rail operations are dependent, in part, on lease agreements with Class I railroads and third parties that allow us to operate over certain segments of track critical to our operations. We lease several railroads from Class I carriers and other third parties under long-term lease arrangements, which railroads collectively accounted for approximately 8% of our 2012 total revenues. We also own several railroads that lease portions of the track or right-of-way upon which they operate from Class I railroads and other third parties. Our ability to provide comprehensive rail services to our customers on the leased lines depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and extend these lease agreements. In addition, certain of the RailAmerica railroads we acquired are also operated pursuant to lease agreements with Class I railroads that will expire and may not be extended, which could give rise to a loss in revenues and a potential write down in the book value of our assets. Leases from Class I railroads that could expire in each of the next 10 years would represent less than 3% of our annual revenues in the year of expiration based on the estimated combined revenues of G&W and RailAmerica for the year ended December 31, 2012. For example, our revenues associated with leases from Class I railroads subject to expiration in each of the next five years would represent approximately 0.2%, 2.7%, 0.2%, 0.0% and 1.7% of our revenues in each of those years, respectively, based on the estimated combined revenues of G&W and RailAmerica for the year ended December 31, 2012. Expiration or termination of these leases or the failure of our railroads to comply with the terms of these leases could result in the loss of operating rights with respect to those rail properties and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.The loss of important customers or contracts may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Our operations served over 2,000 freight customers in 2012. Freight revenues from our 10 largest freight customers (not including RailAmerica customers) accounted for approximately 25% of our operating revenues in 2012. Six of our 10 largest freight customers in 2012 were located in Australia and accounted for approximately 15.6% of our operating revenues. In 2012, our largest freight customer was a company in the farm and food products industry and represented approximately 4.4% of our operating revenues. Freight revenues from RailAmerica's 10 largest freight customers accounted for approximately 13% of its operating revenues in 2012 and its largest freight customer was a company in the steel and metals industry and represented approximately 2.8% of its total revenues. In North America, we typically handle freight pursuant to transportation contracts between us, our connecting carriers and the customer. These contracts are in accordance with industry norms and vary in duration. These contracts establish price or, in the case of longer term contracts, a methodology for determining the price, but do not typically obligate the customer to move any particular volume. Under these contracts, freight rates and volumes are not directly linked to changes in the prices of the commodities being shipped. In Australia, a number of our customer contracts contain a combination of fixed and variable pricing, with the variable portion based on the volumes shipped. Substantial reduction in business with or loss of important customers or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.18Because we depend on Class I railroads and other connecting carriers for a significant portion of our operations in North America, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with these carriers deteriorate.The railroad industry in the United States and Canada is dominated by seven Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. In 2012, approximately 87% of our total carloads in the United States and Canada were interchanged with Class I carriers. A decision by any of these Class I carriers to cease certain freight movements could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The quantitative impact of such a decision would depend on which of our routes and freight movements were affected. In addition, Class I carriers also have traditionally been significant sources of business for us, as well as sources of potential acquisition candidates as they divest branch lines to smaller rail operators.Our ability to provide rail service to customers in the United States and Canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to lease arrangements, freight rates, revenue divisions, fuel surcharges, car supply, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations of, or service provided by, those connecting carriers or in our relationship with those connecting carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Certain of our capital projects may be impacted by our inability to obtain government funding.Certain of our existing capital projects are, and certain of our future capital projects may be, partially or completely funded through government grant programs. During 2012, we obtained government funding for 55 separate projects that were partially or completely funded by United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and municipal agencies. The spending associated with these grant-funded projects represented approximately 19% of our total capital expenditures during 2012. Government funding for projects is limited, and there is no guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state, provincial and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate funding availability. In addition, competition for government funding from other short line railroads, Class I railroads and other companies is significant, and the receipt of government funds is often contingent on the acceptance of contractual obligations that may not be strictly profit maximizing. In certain jurisdictions, the acceptance of government funds may impose additional legal obligations on our operations, such as compliance with prevailing wage requirements. If we are unable to obtain adequate government funding, we may have to defer or forgo certain capital projects, incur additional debt or use additional cash.Our results of operations and rail structure are susceptible to severe weather conditions and other natural occurrences.We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including floods, fires, hurricanes (or cyclones), tornadoes, droughts, earthquakes and other natural occurrences. For example, bad weather and natural disasters, such as blizzards in the northeastern United States and Canada and hurricanes (or cyclones) in the United States and Australia, and resulting floods, could cause a shutdown, derailment or other substantial disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if a material adverse weather or other condition does not directly affect our operations, it can impact the operations of our customers or connecting carriers. For example:•Our minerals and stone freight revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the northeastern United States, which lessen demand for road salt.•Our coal and coke freight revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the United States, which lessen demand for coal.•Our revenues generated by our Australian operations are susceptible to the impact of drought conditions on the South Australian grain harvest and the impact of heavy rains and flooding in the Northern Territory.Furthermore, our expenses could be adversely impacted by such weather conditions, including, for example, higher track maintenance and overtime costs in the winter at our railroads in the northern United States and Canada related to snow removal and mandated work breaks. Such weather conditions could also cause our customers or connecting carriers to reduce or suspend their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.19We are subject to significant governmental regulation of our railroad operations. The failure to comply with governmental regulations or changes to the legislative and regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We are subject to governmental regulation with respect to our railroad operations and to a variety of health, safety, security, labor, environmental and other matters by a significant number of federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In the United States, these agencies include the STB, DOT, FRA of the DOT, MSHA, OSHA, EPA, DHS and other federal and state agencies. In Australia, we are subject to both Commonwealth and state regulations. In Canada, we are subject to regulation by the CTA, TC and the regulatory departments of the provincial governments of Quebec, Ontario and Nova Scotia. In the Netherlands, we are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management, the Transport, Public Works and Water Management Inspectorate and the Dutch railways managers, ProRail and Keyrail. In Belgium, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Public Service (FPS) Mobility and Transport, the Regulatory Service for Railway Transport and for Brussels Airport Operations, which is currently hosted by FPS Mobility and Transport, and the Belgian railways infrastructure manager, Infrabel. See “Part I Item 1. Business – Regulation” for a discussion of these regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.There are various legislative and regulatory actions that have been considered in the United States in recent years, including legislation to modify the regulatory oversight of the rail industry. In addition, various proceedings have been initiated by the STB related to rail competition, interchange commitments and competitive “access”. A two-year DOT study on the impacts of a possible increase in federal truck size and weight limits also commenced in 2012, and could result in subsequent federal legislation. The majority of the actions under consideration and pending are directed at Class I railroads; however, specific initiatives being considered by Congress and the STB could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for our rail services, which could undermine the economic viability of certain of our railroads, as well as threaten the service we are able to provide to our customers. The cost of compliance with the proposed rules and regulations could also be significant. In the other geographies in which we operate, federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities could change the regulatory framework (including the access regimes) or take actions without providing us with any recourse for the adverse effects that the changes or actions could have on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution and business relationships with our customers and other railroads. Significant legislative or regulatory activity could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Our Senior Secured Syndicated Facility Agreement (the New Credit Agreement) contains numerous covenants that impose certain restrictions on the way we operate our business.Our New Credit Agreement contains numerous covenants that impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends on capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire capital stock or indebtedness;•make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions;•engage in certain transactions with affiliates;•create liens;•sell assets, including capital stock of any of our subsidiaries;•consolidate or merge;•enter into sale leaseback transactions;•change the business conducted by us and the guarantors;•change our fiscal year; and•enter into certain agreements containing negative pledges and upstream limitations.Our New Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to meet financial ratios and tests. Our failure to comply with the obligations in our New Credit Agreement and other debt agreements could result in an increase in our interest expense and could give rise to events of default under the New Credit Agreement or other debt agreements, as applicable, which, if not cured or waived, could permit lenders to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose on the assets securing such debt, if any.20Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had a total indebtedness of $1.9 billion, and we had unused commitments of $396.3 million under our New Credit Agreement (after giving effect to $3.6 million of undrawn letters of credit which reduces such availability).Subject to the limits contained in the New Credit Agreement and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following:•making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the New CreditAgreement, are at variable rates of interest;•limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;•placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and•increasing our cost of borrowing.In addition, the New Credit Agreement contains restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt and foreclosure on the assets securing such debt, if any.We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business.Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that customers or counterparties, which include government entities related to grants and financial institutions related to derivative transactions, will fail to meet their obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money have defaulted and may continue to default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. For interline traffic, one railroad typically invoices a customer on behalf of all railroads participating in the route. The invoicing railroad then pays the other railroads their portion of the total amount invoiced on a monthly basis. When we are the invoicing railroad, therefore, we are exposed to customer credit risk for the total amount invoiced and we are required to pay the other railroads participating in the route even if we are not paid by the customer. We have procedures for reviewing our receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties; however, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Certain of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. This information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, we may make substantial investments in equipment and assets to support our customers, in particular those in the mining and natural resources industry, before the customer commences operations. In those cases, we may be exposed to start-up risks that we would not be exposed to in respect of customers with active operations. As a result, unexpected credit exposures or start-up delays could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.21We face competition from numerous sources, including those relating to geography, substitute products, other types of transportation and other rail operators.In North America, each of our railroads is typically the only rail carrier directly serving our customers. In certain circumstances, including under the open access regimes in Australia, the Netherlands and Belgium, our customers have direct access to other rail carriers. In addition, our railroads also compete directly with other modes of transportation, principally trucks and, on some routes, ship, barge and pipeline operators. Transportation providers such as trucks and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, while we must build and maintain our own network infrastructure. Competition for our services could increase if other rail operators build new rail lines to access certain of our customers or if legislation is passed that provides materially greater latitude for trucks with respect to size or weight restrictions.We are also subject to geographic and product competition. A customer could shift production to a region where we do not have operations. Also, commodities that are not transported by rail could be substituted for another commodity that we transport by rail. For example, natural gas can compete with coal we transport as a fuel source for electricity generation. In either case, we could lose a source of revenues.The extent of competition varies significantly among our railroads. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged, the relative costs of substitutable products and the transit time required. In addition, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the service provided. Because a significant portion of our carloads in the United States and Canada involve interchange with another carrier, we have only limited control over the total price, transit time or quality of such service. It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of competition on our business, since not only each customer, but also each customer location and each product shipped from such location is subject to different types of competition. However, changes to the competitive landscape could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.For information on the competition associated with the open access regimes in Australia and Europe, see “Additional Risks Associated with our Foreign Operations.”Market and regulatory responses to climate change could adversely affect our operating costs.Market and regulatory responses to climate change, as well as its physical impacts, could materially affect us. For example, federal, state and local laws, regulations, restrictions, caps, taxes or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations to the extent they apply to our diesel locomotives, equipment, vehicles and machinery or our rail yards.Market and regulatory responses to climate change, including the closure of coal-fired power plants we serve, climate change litigation and climate change itself could decrease demand for the commodities we transport and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Restrictions on emissions could affect our customers that use commodities that we carry to produce energy, that use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or that manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including, for example, coal mining operations, natural gas developers and producers, coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes in consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, such as by resulting in the closure of coal-fired power plants that we serve, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change including claims alleging impact of our operations on climate change. Any such market or regulatory responses or litigation, as well as physical impacts attributed to climate change and global warming, such as floods, rising sea levels and increasingly frequent and intense storms, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the impacts discussed above or other unforeseen impacts of climate change, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.22We could incur significant costs for violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations.Our railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials and cleanup of hazardous materials (including lading) or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations. We may incur environmental liability from conditions or practices at properties previously owned or operated by us, properties leased by us and other properties owned by third parties (for example, properties at which hazardous substances or wastes for which we are responsible have been treated, stored, spilled or disposed), as well as at properties currently owned or operated by us. Under some environmental statutes, such liability may be found without regard to whether we were at fault and may also be “joint and several,” whereby we are responsible for all the liability at issue even though we (or the entity that gives rise to our liability) may be only one of a number of entities whose conduct contributed to the liability.Environmental liabilities may arise from claims asserted by owners or occupants of affected properties, other third parties affected by environmental conditions (for example, contractors and current or former employees) seeking to recover in connection with alleged damages to their property or personal injury or death, and/or by governmental authorities seeking to remedy environmental conditions or to enforce environmental obligations. Environmental requirements and liabilities could obligate us to incur significant costs, including significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.As a common carrier by rail, we are required to transport hazardous materials, regardless of cost or risk.Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury, property damage and environmental remediation costs and compromise critical parts of our railroads. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to rail transportation of these commodities. Also, federal regulators have previously prescribed regulations governing railroads’ transportation of hazardous materials and have the ability to put in place additional regulations. For instance, existing legislation requires pre-notification for hazardous materials shipments. Such legislation and regulations could impose significant additional costs on railroads. Additionally, regulations adopted by the DOT and the DHS could significantly increase the costs associated with moving hazardous materials on our railroads. Further, certain local governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving by rail within their borders. Such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments, with the potential for significant additional costs. Increases in costs associated with the transportation of hazardous materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.23The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are either not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We have insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. Unexpected or catastrophic circumstances associated with derailments of valuable lading, accidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials or other incidents involving our operations could cause our losses to exceed our insurance coverage limits or sub-limits. In addition, on certain of the rail lines over which we operate, freight trains are commingled with passenger trains. For instance, in Oregon, our Portland & Western Railroad operates certain passenger trains for the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon and our New England Central Railroad is also used by Amtrak for passenger service in New England. Further, we operate excursion trains on behalf of third parties on certain of the rail lines over which we operate. Derailments, collisions or other incidents involving us and passenger or excursion trains could give rise to losses that exceed our insurance coverage. Also, insurance is available from only a very limited number of insurers, and we may not be able to obtain insurance protection at current levels or at all or obtain it on terms acceptable to us. Deteriorating insurance market conditions caused by global property casualties and subsequent adverse events directly and indirectly attributable to us, including such things as derailments, accidents, discharge of toxic or hazardous materials, or other like occurrences in the industry, may result in additional increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self-insured retentions, volatility in our claims' expenses and limitations to the coverage under our existing policies and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. Even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, we may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Exposure to market risks, particularly changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and hedging transactions entered into to mitigate these and other risks could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We are exposed to various market risks, including interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. It is impossible to fully mitigate all such exposure and higher interest rates and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may use various financial instruments to reduce our exposure to certain market risks. For instance, we have entered into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk associated with the floating interest rate payments under our New Credit Agreement. While these financial instruments reduce our exposure to market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from lower interest rates or favorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement and may have significant costs associated with early termination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We may be adversely affected by diesel fuel supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets and increases in diesel fuel costs.In 2012, G&W and RailAmerica consumed 25.2 million gallons and 15.5 million gallons of diesel fuel, respectively. Fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. If a severe fuel supply shortage arose from production curtailments, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or otherwise, diesel fuel may not be readily available and may be subject to rationing regulations.In addition, diesel fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses. Currently, we receive fuel surcharges and other rate adjustments to offset fuel prices. However, if Class I railroads change their policies regarding fuel surcharges, the compensation we receive for increases in fuel costs may decrease and could have a negative effect on our profitability. Costs for fuel used in operations were approximately 13% and 14% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.If diesel fuel prices increase dramatically from production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.24We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, freight loss, property damage and other matters. For example, United States job-related personal injury claims by our railroad employees are subject to FELA, which is applicable only to railroads. FELA's fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker's compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in the actual costs of claims being very different from the liability recorded.Any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving material freight loss or property damage, personal injury and environmental liability that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We are a party to 77 collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States, Australia, Canada and Belgium. We are currently engaged in negotiations with respect to 17 of those agreements. Approximately 1,750 of our approximately 4,600 full time employees are union members. We have also entered into employee association agreements with an additional 68 employees who are not represented by a national labor organization. GWA has a collective enterprise bargaining agreement covering the majority of its employees.Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs. A substantial majority of the employees of the Class I railroads with which we interchange are unionized. If such Class I railroads were to have a work stoppage or strike, the national rail network and our operations would be adversely affected. To date, we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages. Additional unionization of our workforce could result in higher employee compensation and restrictive working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility.If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of qualified workers, or attract and retain senior leadership, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.We believe that our success and our growth depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled workers who possess the ability to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities. The operation and maintenance of our equipment and facilities involve complex and specialized processes and often must be performed in harsh and remote conditions, resulting in a high employee turnover rate when compared to many other industries. The challenge of attracting and retaining the necessary workforce is increased by the expected retirement of an aging workforce, training requirements and significant competition for specialized trades. Within the next five years, we estimate that approximately 15% of our current workforce, including employees we obtained from the recent RailAmerica acquisition, will become eligible for retirement. Many of these workers hold key operating positions, such as conductors, engineers and mechanics. In addition, the demand for workers with the types of skills we require has increased, especially from Class I railroads, which can usually offer higher wages and better benefits. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both. In addition, if key employees of RailAmerica depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become our employees, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of RailAmerica could be reduced or delayed. Finally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain senior leadership necessary to manage and grow our business. The loss of any key personnel could require the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. The loss of the services of any of our senior leadership, and the inability to find a suitable replacement, could adversely affect our operating, acquisition and investment strategies. Our ability to manage all of these risks is further complicated by the geographic diversity of our operations. If any of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our profit margins could decrease and our growth strategy could be impaired.25Our operations are dependent on our ability to obtain rail cars, locomotives and other critical railroad items from suppliers.Due to the capital intensive nature and industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, there are high barriers to entry for potential new suppliers of core railroad items such as rail cars, locomotives and track materials. If the number of available rail cars is insufficient or if the cost of obtaining these rail cars either through lease or purchase increases, we might not be able to obtain rail cars on favorable terms, or at all, and shippers may seek alternate forms of transportation. As of January 1, 2013, according to the AAR, approximately 21% of the North American railcar fleet was in storage. In some cases we use third-party locomotives to provide transportation services to our customers and such locomotives may not be available. Without these third-party locomotives, we would need to invest additional capital in locomotives. Even if purchased, there is no guarantee that locomotives would be available for delivery without significant delay. For example, in Australia the availability of new locomotives is limited, with long lead times for delivery. Additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of certain track materials, such as rail and ties. Changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited-supplier markets could result in equipment shortages that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity in a particular year or quarter and could limit our ability to support new projects and achieve our growth strategy.We may be affected by acts of terrorism or anti-terrorism measures.Our rail lines, port operations and other facilities and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials that we are required to transport under federal law as a common carrier, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack or other similar event could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulatory measures designed to control terrorism could impose substantial costs upon us and could result in impairment to our service, which could also have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.ADDITIONAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONSWe are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.Some of our significant subsidiaries transact business in foreign countries, namely in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and Belgium. In addition, we may consider acquisitions or other investments in other foreign countries in the future. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include:•adverse changes or greater volatility in the economies of those countries;•adverse currency movements that make goods produced in those countries that are destined for export markets less competitive;•adverse effects due to changes in the eurozone membership;•adverse changes to the regulatory environment or access regimes of those countries;•adverse changes to the tax laws and regulations of those countries;•restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment, or a decrease in the value of repatriated cash flows;•a decrease in the value of foreign sourced income as a result of exchange rate changes;•the actual or perceived failure by us to fulfill commitments under concession agreements;•the ability to identify and retain qualified local managers; and•the challenge of managing a culturally and geographically diverse operation.26Because some of our significant subsidiaries and affiliates transact business in foreign currencies and because a significant portion of our net income comes from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect us and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.Our operations in Australia, Canada and Europe accounted for 33%, 9%, and 2% of our consolidated operating revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. On a pro forma basis after giving effect to the acquisition of RailAmerica, our operations in Australia, Canada and Europe accounted for 19%, 8% and 1% of our long-lived assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. The results of operations of our foreign entities are maintained in the local currency (the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro) and then translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, any appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the United States dollar can impact our results of operations. The financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are prepared in the local currency of the respective subsidiary and translated into United States dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the period for balance sheet items and, for the statement of operations, at the average rate for the statement period. The exchange rates between these currencies and the United States dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future.We may not be able to manage our exchange rate risks effectively, and the volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in United States dollars, such fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.Our concession and/or lease agreements in Australia could be cancelled, and there is no guarantee these agreements will be extended beyond their terms.Through our subsidiaries in Australia, we have entered into long-term concession and/or lease agreements with governmental authorities in the Northern Territory and South Australia. Our concession agreement for the Tarcoola to Darwin rail line expires in 2054 and our lease agreement for our other South Australia rail lines expires in 2047. If our concession or lease agreements expire, we will no longer act as the below rail access provider, but will still be permitted to participate in the above rail market. These concession and lease agreements are subject to a number of conditions, including those relating to the maintenance of certain standards with respect to service, price and the environment. These concession and lease agreements also typically carry with them a commitment to maintain the condition of the railroad and to make a certain level of capital expenditures, which may require capital expenditures that are in excess of our projections. Our failure to meet these commitments under the long-term concession and lease agreements could result in the termination of those concession or lease agreements. The termination of any concession or lease agreement could result in the loss of our investment relating to that concession or lease agreement. Further, the expiration of these agreements and the end of their term would result in the loss of the associated revenues and income. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Open access regimes in Australia and Europe could lead to additional competition for rail services and decreased revenues and profit margins.The legislative and regulatory framework in Australia allows third-party rail operators to gain access to our Australian railway infrastructure and also governs our access to track owned by others. The Netherlands and Belgium also have open access regimes that permit third-party rail operators to compete for the business of RRF, our subsidiary in the Netherlands. There are limited barriers to entry to preclude a current or prospective rail operator from approaching our customers and seeking to capture their business. The loss of our customers to competitors could result in decreased revenues and profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.27Changes to the open access regimes in Australia and Europe could have a significant impact on our operations.Access fees paid for our access onto the track of other companies and access fees we charge under state and federal regimes are subject to change. Where we pay access fees to others, if those fees were increased, our operating margins could be negatively affected. In Australia, if the federal government or respective state regulators were to alter the regulatory regime or determine that access fees charged to current or prospective third-party rail freight operators by our Australian railroads did not meet competitive standards, our income from those fees could decline. In addition, when we operate over track networks owned by others, the owners of the networks are responsible for scheduling the use of the tracks as well as for determining the amount and timing of the expenditures necessary to maintain the tracks in satisfactory condition. Therefore, in areas where we operate over tracks owned by others, our operations are subject to train scheduling set by the owners as well as the risk that the network will not be adequately maintained.Revocation of our safety accreditations could result in a loss of revenue and termination of our concession.Our operating subsidiaries in Australia, the Netherlands and Belgium hold safety accreditations that are required in order for them to provide freight rail services. Continued maintenance of our safety accreditation in Australia is a requirement under our concession deeds and some customer contracts. These safety accreditations are essential for us to conduct our business and are subject to removal. Following significant derailments, the government entities responsible for oversight of rail safety frequently perform investigations. Any loss of, failure to maintain or inability to renew, rail safety accreditations necessary to carry on rail operations in any jurisdiction, or any changes in government policy and legal or regulatory oversight, including changes to the rail safety regulatory regime, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational performance and financial results.Changes to the mining tax regime in Australia could have a negative impact on our existing customers and the prospects for new customer initiatives underway.The Australian Government approved a new Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) that was effective as of July 1, 2012. The MRRT is a tax on profits generated from the exploitation of certain non-renewable resources in Australia. The implementation of the MRRT could result in an increase in operating costs for mining assets based in Australia. The tax could also have an adverse effect on our Australian operations by reducing the volume of commodities mined in Australia for us to transport, as well as by reducing levels of demand for Australian commodities and our transportation of those commodities. Consequently, the introduction of the MRRT could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.RISKS RELATED TO TAXATIONOur ability to use RailAmerica's Section 45G tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation due to a change in the ownership of its stock.As of December 31, 2012, RailAmerica had tax benefits totaling approximately $135.9 million of Section 45G tax credit carryforwards and federal net operating loss carryforwards. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited and may result in a partial or full write down of the related deferred tax assets. An ownership change is defined generally for these purposes as a greater than 50% change in ownership over a three-year period, taking into account shareholders that own 5% or more by value of our common stock. While we currently believe it is more likely than not that we will be able to utilize these tax attributes, our acquisition of RailAmerica may limit our ability to use RailAmerica's net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to reduce our future tax liabilities.28The United States Short Line Tax Credit expires on December 31, 2013. As a result, our effective tax rate in 2014 will be higher if the credit is not extended.Since 2005, we have benefited from the effects of the United States Short Line Tax Credit, which is an income tax credit for Class II and Class III railroads to reduce their federal income tax based on qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (the Short Line Tax Credit). Qualified expenditures include amounts incurred for maintaining track, including roadbed, bridges and related track structures owned or leased by a Class II or Class III railroad. The credit is equal to 50% of the qualified expenditures, subject to an annual limitation of $3,500 multiplied by the number of miles of railroad track owned or leased by the Class II or Class III railroad as of the end of their tax year. On January 2, 2013, the Short Line Tax Credit (which had previously expired on December 31, 2011) was extended for 2012 and 2013. The most recent extension of the Short Line Tax Credit only extended the credit through December 31, 2013. If the Short Line Tax Credit is not extended for additional tax years, the loss of the credit will increase our effective tax rate and reduce our reported earnings per share.If the earnings of our controlled foreign subsidiaries were required to be distributed, our effective tax rate could be higher.We file a consolidated United States federal income tax return that includes all of our United States subsidiaries. Each of our foreign subsidiaries files appropriate income tax returns in each of their respective countries. No provision is made for the United States income taxes applicable to the undistributed earnings of our controlled foreign subsidiaries. The amount of those earnings was $251.4 million as of December 31, 2012. Although it is our current intention to fully utilize those earnings in the operations of our controlled foreign subsidiaries, if the earnings were required to be distributed in the future, those distributions may be subject to United States income taxes (appropriately reduced by available foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries, and could result in a higher effective tax rate for us, thereby reducing our earnings. See “Part II Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash Repatriation” for additional information.Non-U.S. holders who own or owned more than a certain ownership threshold may be subject to United States federal income tax on gains realized on the disposition of the shares of Class A common stock.It is possible that we are a United States real property holding corporation currently or will become one in the future for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are or become a United States real property holding corporation, so long as Class A common stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, only a non-U.S. holder (i.e., a holder that is not a United States citizen or resident, a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and certain trusts and estates) who holds or held (at any time during the shorter of the five year period preceding the date of disposition or the holder's holding period) more than 5% of Class A common stock will be subject to United States federal income tax on the disposition of Class A common stock. Non-U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the consequences of disposing of shares of our Class A common stock.29ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.