Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below contain forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Nexavar® is our only approved product and we may never obtain regulatory approval for carfilzomib or any other future product candidate. If Nexavar fails and we or our collaborator are unable to develop, obtain approval for and commercialize alternative product candidates our business would fail. Nexavar is the only approved product that generated commercial revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and which we rely on to fund our operations. Unless we can successfully commercialize one of our other product candidates, we will continue to rely on Nexavar to generate substantially all of our revenues and fund our operations. All of our other product candidates are still development-stage, and we may never obtain approval of or earn revenues from any of our product candidates. Similarly, Bayer may be unsuccessful in obtaining regulatory approval for regorafenib. Carfilzomib is in late stage clinical development and our other product candidates are in early clinical stage. Successful development and commercialization of these compounds and our other product candidates is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The New Drug Application, or NDA, for accelerated approval of carfilzomib may not be approved by the FDA. For example, our NDA for accelerated approval of carfilzomib was based on a Phase 2b trial, and the FDA has advised us that recent Oncology Drug Advisory Committee recommendations specify a preference for Phase 3 trials for the accelerated approval pathway. In addition, based on its preliminary review and ongoing assessment of the NDA, the FDA outlined potential review issues, including whether the application is sufficient to support an FDA conclusion that the data provided in the NDA meets accelerated approval criteria and whether the benefit and risk are appropriately balanced, given that the application is based on a single-arm study. The FDA’s assessment of whether the NDA meets the criteria of accelerated approval will also include an assessment of whether carfilzomib provides an advantage over all approved therapies. We have limited experience managing regulatory filings and in negotiating product approval and licensure with regulatory authorities. We may not succeed in obtaining accelerated approval, or full approval of carfilzomib on anticipated timelines or at all. Our stock price is volatile, our operating results are unpredictable, we have a history of losses and we may be unable to sustain profitability. Our stock price is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on our stock price, including: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • results from or speculation about clinical trials or the regulatory status of Nexavar, carfilzomib or other product candidates; 23 Table of Contents • decisions or changes in policy by regulatory agencies, or changes in regulatory requirements; • announcements by us regarding, or speculation about, our strategic transactions or business development activities; • ability to accrue patients into clinical trials or submit or obtain approval of regulatory filings; • developments in our relationship with Bayer and other commercialization partners; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies or other government regulations; • changes in generally accepted accounting principles and changes in tax laws; • announcements by us or our competitors of innovations, clinical data results, new products or new regulatory filings; • sales by us of our common stock or debt securities; and • foreign currency fluctuations, which would affect our share of collaboration profits or losses. In the past, following our or Bayer’s announcements regarding lower than anticipated Nexavar sales and disappointing clinical trials in melanoma and NSCLC, and following our announcements about various clinical and regulatory developments for carfilzomib, our stock price has declined, in some cases significantly. Our operating results and Nexavar sales will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Our operating expenses are highly dependent on expenses incurred by Bayer and in certain regions are independent of Nexavar sales. We have to date incurred losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. We might incur operating losses in the future as we expand our development and commercial activities for carfilzomib and our product candidates. We expect to incur significant operating expenses associated with the development activities of carfilzomib and additional products, including potentially regorafenib, if we conduct separate development of regorafenib in certain indications, at our own expense, as permitted under the regorafenib Agreement. As a result of the acquisition of Proteolix, we may be required to pay up to an additional $495.0 million in four earn-out payments upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals within pre-specified timeframes. We recorded a liability for this contingent consideration for the four earn-out payments with a fair value of $160.0 million at December 31, 2011 based upon a discounted cash flow model that uses significant estimates and assumptions. Any changes to these estimates and assumptions could significantly impact the fair values recorded for this liability resulting in significant charges to our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Moreover, we may, at our discretion, make any of the remaining earn-out payments in the form of cash, shares of Onyx common stock or a combination thereof. If we elect to issue shares of our common stock in lieu of making an earn-out payment in cash, this would have a dilutive effect on our common stock and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. It is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results could disappoint securities analysts or investors. Many factors, including, but not limited to disappointing operating results and/or the other factors outlined above, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. Our clinical trials for Nexavar or carfilzomib, and Bayer’s clinical trials of regorafenib, could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all, and we may never obtain regulatory approval for carfilzomib, regorafenib or any other product candidate. The timing of initiation and completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays resulting from various causes, including actions by Bayer for Nexavar and/or regorafenib clinical trials, conflicts regarding scheduling or competing clinical trials with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, modification of clinical trial designs, and shortages of available drug supply, including supply of comparator drugs for clinical and commercial purposes. We may face difficulties 24 Table of Contents developing and sustaining relationships with carfilzomib development partners, including clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, key opinion leaders and clinical investigators. We may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar, carfilzomib or any of our other product candidates as projected or at all. We may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully manage the execution and completion of clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar, regorafenib, carfilzomib or other product candidates for their target indications. In addition, we rely on Bayer, academic institutions, cooperative oncology organizations and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor the majority of clinical trials involving Nexavar, carfilzomib and regorafenib. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. The timing of review by regulatory authorities is uncertain. We may not receive accelerated approval or any approval for carfilzomib. Similarly, Bayer may be unable to obtain approval for regorafenib. Development and commercialization of compounds that appear promising in research or development, including Phase 2 clinical trials, may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for a variety of reasons including: • nonclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • regulatory approvals may not be received, or may be delayed due to factors such as slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or preparation of an IND, discussions with regulatory authorities, requests from regulatory authorities for additional preclinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, including possible changes in acceptable trial endpoints, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing or quality issues, changes in policy or attitudes at regulatory authorities, and regulatory filings submitted on competing drugs that could alter the regulatory prospects of our drugs; • difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in validating or getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical; • proprietary or contractual rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so; and • contractual rights of our collaborators or others may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so. Failure to successfully commercialize carfilzomib or regorafenib or to complete additional development of Nexavar for these or any other reasons would significantly harm our business and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. If Nexavar is not broadly adopted for the treatment of unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. If our ongoing and planned clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective for additional indications or we are unable to obtain necessary approvals for other uses, we will be unable to expand the commercial market for Nexavar and our business may be harmed or fail. The ultimate market size for Nexavar in treating unresectable liver cancer will depend on several factors, including educating treating physicians on the appropriate use of Nexavar and the management of patients who are receiving Nexavar. This may be difficult as liver cancer patients typically have underlying liver disease and other comorbidities and can be treated by a variety of medical specialists. In addition, screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by region. Further, liver cancer is common in many regions in the developing world where the healthcare systems are limited and reimbursement for Nexavar is limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption. If we are unable to change the treatment paradigms for this disease, we may be unable to successfully achieve the market potential of Nexavar in this indication, which could harm our 25 Table of Contents business. In addition, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for this indication may be obtained and in some Asian Pacific countries in particular, these approvals require prolonged negotiations with the governments. In addition, we may not receive or maintain pricing approvals at favorable levels or at all, which could harm our ability to broadly market Nexavar. Nexavar has not been approved in any indications other than unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer. We and Bayer are currently conducting a number of clinical trials of Nexavar; however, our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective in other indications, and Nexavar may not gain additional regulatory approval, which would limit the potential market for the product causing our business to fail. Success in one or even several cancer types does not indicate that Nexavar would be approved or have successful clinical trials in other cancer types. Bayer and Onyx have conducted Phase 3 trials in melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, that were not successful. In addition, in the NSCLC Phase 3 trial, higher mortality was observed in the subset of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung treated with Nexavar and carboplatin and paclitaxel than in the subset of patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone. Based on this observation, further enrollment of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung was suspended from other NSCLC trials sponsored by us. Other cancer types with a histology similar to squamous cell carcinoma of the lung may yield a similar adverse treatment outcome. If so, patients having this histology may be excluded from ongoing and future clinical trials, which could potentially delay clinical trial enrollment and would reduce the number of patients that could potentially receive Nexavar. Regulatory requirements change over time, including acceptable clinical endpoints. We may be unable to satisfy new requirements or expectations of regulatory authorities and hence, Nexavar may never be approved in additional indications. We face intense competition and many of our competitors have substantially greater experience and resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market oncology products that face significant competition from other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Nexavar faces significant competition. There are many existing approaches used in the treatment of unresectable liver cancer including alcohol injection, radiofrequency ablation, chemoembolization, cryoablation and radiation therapy. Several other therapies are in development, including Bristol-Myers Squibb’s brivanib, a Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 2 (VEGFR 2) inhibitor. If Nexavar is unable to compete or be combined successfully with existing approaches or if new therapies are developed for unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. There are several competing therapies approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, including Sutent, a multiple kinase inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Pfizer; Torisel, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Wyeth; Avastin, an angiogenesis inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States and the European Union and marketed by Genentech, a member of the Roche Group; Afinitor, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States and the European Union by Novartis; GlaxoSmithKline’s Votrient, a multiple kinase inhibitor, and Pfizer’s Inlyta, a kinase inhibitor recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States. Nexavar’s market share in advanced kidney cancer has declined following the introduction of these products into the market. We expect competition to increase as additional products are approved to treat advanced kidney cancer. The successful introduction of other new therapies, including generic versions of competing therapies, to treat advanced kidney cancer could significantly reduce the potential market for Nexavar in this indication. Beyond unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer, competitors that target the same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates at various stages of clinical development include Bayer, Pfizer, Roche, Wyeth, Novartis International AG, Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC, Astellas Pharma Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and several others. A number of companies have agents such as small molecules or antibodies targeting VEGF, VEGF receptors, Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF, EGF 26 Table of Contents receptors, and other enzymes. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. A demonstrated survival benefit is often an important element in determining standard of care in oncology. We did not demonstrate a statistically significant overall survival benefit for patients treated with Nexavar in our Phase 3 kidney cancer trial, which we believe was due in part to the crossover of patients from placebo to Nexavar during the conduct of our pivotal clinical trial. Competitors with statistically significant overall survival data could be preferred in the marketplace. The FDA approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be marketed as an initial, or first-line, therapy and subsequent lines of therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, but approvals in some other regions do not. For example, the European Union approval indicates Nexavar only for advanced kidney cancer patients that have failed prior cytokine therapy or whose physicians deem alternate therapies inappropriate. We may be unable to compete effectively against products with broader or different marketing authorizations in one or more countries. Nexavar may face challenges and competition from generic products. Generic manufacturers may file Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, in the U.S. seeking FDA authorization to manufacture and market generic versions of Nexavar, together with Paragraph IV certifications that challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents. If Bayer or we fail to timely file a lawsuit against any ANDA filer, that ANDA filer may not be subject to an FDA stay, and upon approval of the ANDA, the ANDA filer may elect to launch a generic version of Nexavar, thereby harming our business. Even if a lawsuit is timely filed, Bayer and we may be unable to successfully enforce and defend the Nexavar patents and we may face generic competition prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents in 2020. Similarly, outside the United States, generic companies or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents, requiring Bayer and us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Generic companies may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of Nexavar. For example, a generic version of Nexavar has been launched in Peru and Cipla recently received approval to launch its version of sorafenib in India at a price that is significantly less than that charged for Nexavar in India. Bayer has ongoing litigations with Cipla, including a patent infringement case in India, and has requested the court to issue an injunction against Cipla. Bayer may be unsuccessful in defending or enforcing the Nexavar patents in one or more countries and could face generic competition prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents, which would harm our business. We have not marketed products for any hematological cancer, including multiple myeloma, and may be at a disadvantage to our competitors. Carfilzomib, if approved for multiple myeloma, would compete directly with products marketed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Celgene Corporation and potentially against agents currently in development for treatment of this disease by Merck & Co. Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Nereus Pharmaceuticals, Cephalon, Inc., and other companies. Our competitors may develop and commercialize therapies that change the treatment paradigm for multiple myeloma. For example, Millenium is developing a multiple myeloma therapy to be administered orally. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of carfilzomib, which is administered intravenously, it may not compete effectively with orally administered drugs, and we may not succeed in developing an orally administered therapy, which would harm our business. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • discovering and patenting products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • manufacturing products; and • marketing and obtaining reimbursement for products. 27 Table of Contents Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we in any or all of these areas. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to proprietary technology. We may be unsuccessful in launching, maintaining adequate supply or obtaining reimbursement for carfilzomib, if it receives regulatory approval. In order to commercialize carfilzomib, if approved, we must ensure an adequate supply chain, including validation of commercial manufacturing processes, build capabilities for managed care and reimbursement by private and public insurers, expand our U.S. sales force and develop and maintain an international sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. We have limited experience building and maintaining a commercialization infrastructure in the U.S., no experience in building such an infrastructure internationally, and no experience in building or maintaining a supply chain or managed care and reimbursement infrastructure, which is difficult and time consuming, and requires substantial financial and other resources. Factors that may hinder our efforts to expand our U.S. presence and develop an international sales, marketing, supply chain, managed care and distribution infrastructure include: • inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing, supply chain and managed care personnel; • inability to establish or maintain relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers, insurers and distributors; • delay in launch due to the need to validate manufacturing processes, or problems incurred by any of our third party manufacturers; • inability to sufficiently manufacture adequate quantities of our products; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen delays, costs and expenses associated with creating international capabilities, including an international sales and marketing organization and international supply chain and reimbursement capabilities. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to further develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar. Our success for developing, manufacturing and commercializing Nexavar depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we may be unable to continue development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense. If we were able to do so on our own, this would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, would necessarily impose delays on development programs, may limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing Nexavar. Disputes with Bayer may delay or prevent us from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing or increasing the sales of Nexavar, and could lead to additional disputes with Bayer, which could be time consuming and expensive. As permitted under our amended Collaboration Agreement and regorafenib Agreement with Bayer, we may develop Nexavar and/or regorafenib in certain indications at our own expense. If we were to do so, this would increase our research and development costs, could impose delays on other development programs, and/or could limit the indications we are able to pursue. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: • the development and commercialization by Bayer of regorafenib; 28 Table of Contents • decisions by Bayer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of Nexavar; • possible disagreements as to development plans, clinical trials, regulatory marketing or sales; • our inability to co-promote Nexavar in any country outside the United States, which makes us solely dependent on Bayer to promote Nexavar in foreign countries; • Bayer’s right to terminate the collaboration agreement on limited notice in certain circumstances involving our insolvency or material breach of the agreement; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • adverse regulatory or legal action against Bayer resulting from failure to meet healthcare industry compliance requirements in the promotion and sale of Nexavar and/or regorafenib, including federal and state reporting requirements; • changes in key management personnel at Bayer, including Bayer’s representatives on the collaboration’s executive team; and • disagreements with Bayer regarding interpretation or enforcement of the Collaboration Agreement and/or the regorafenib Agreement. We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar and regorafenib and we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. Bayer may not have sufficient expertise to promote or obtain reimbursement for oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. In addition, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of potential regulatory approvals. We are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer’s commercial decisions related to Nexavar as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. Bayer’s development of other products, including regorafenib, may affect Bayer’s incentives to develop and commercialize Nexavar that are different from our own. Bayer has disclosed a clinical development plan for regorafenib that includes tumor types for which Nexavar has been approved (renal cell carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma), as well as tumor types for which Nexavar is in development (colorectal cancer and NSCLC). Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Further, if we or Bayer cease funding development of Nexavar under the collaboration agreement, then that party will be entitled to receive a royalty, but not to share in profits. Bayer could, upon 60 days notice, elect at any time to terminate its co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer terminates its co-funding of Nexavar development, further development of Nexavar could be delayed and we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator. In addition, Bayer has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to nominate a member to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and collaborator may not be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and determine all corporate actions. Moreover, we are highly dependent on Bayer for timely and accurate information regarding any revenues realized from sales of Nexavar and the costs incurred in developing and selling it, in order to accurately report our results of operations. If we do not receive timely and accurate information or incorrectly estimate activity levels associated with the co-promotion and development of Nexavar at a given point in time, we could be required to record adjustments in future periods and may be required to restate our results for prior periods. Such inaccuracies or restatements could cause a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or lead to claims against us, resulting in a decrease in the trading price of shares of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Our collaboration agreement with Bayer will terminate when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or at the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. Our royalties on the sale of regorafenib will terminate with expiration of regorafenib patents. The worldwide patents and patent applications covering Nexavar and regorafenib are owned by Bayer and certain patents are licensed to us through our collaboration agreement and regorafenib Agreement. We have limited control over the filing, strategy, or prosecution of the Nexavar and regorafenib patent applications no control of enforcement or defense of the patents outside the United States. Our operating results could be adversely affected by product sales occurring outside the United States and fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies or unintended consequences from our currency contracts. A majority of Nexavar sales are generated outside of the United States, and a significant percentage of Nexavar commercial and development expenses are incurred outside of the United States. Under our collaboration agreement, when these sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars by Bayer in determining amounts payable to us or payable by us, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We also incur a significant percentage of research and development expenses for carfilzomib and our earlier-stage development products in currencies other than the US dollar. In July 2010 we began entering into transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying exchange rate in the contracts and actual exchange rate. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the Euro and the Japanese Yen. As we expand our business geographically, we could be exposed to exchange rate fluctuation in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We are dependent on Bayer and third parties to manufacture and distribute our products, and do not have the manufacturing expertise or capabilities to manufacture or distribute any current or future products. Under our collaboration agreement and regorafenib agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar and regorafenib for clinical trials and for commercialization. Should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so for us. In addition, we have manufacturing responsibility for carfilzomib and oprozomib, which we currently manufacture through third-party contract manufacturers, and have not yet established back-up manufacturers for these compounds. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar, regorafenib, carfilzomib or any other product candidate on our own and would require substantial funds and time to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties for manufacturing. These parties may encounter difficulties and delays in production scale-up, production yields, control and quality assurance, validation, regulatory status or shortage of qualified personnel. They may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required to test or market our products. They may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. We utilize a sole manufacturer for carfilzomib, and if this manufacturer became unable to deliver our required quantities of carfilzomib on a timely basis, or ceased production, we would experience delays in the clinical trial schedule of our drugs and drug candidates, the regulatory approval process, ability to timely ship product, and may be required to find an alternative manufacturer. For example, our contract manufacturer for carfilzomib drug product has experienced media fill failures on the line used to produce carfilzomib, which indicated that the line may not have met the required standards for sterility. Media fill failures are not uncommon, and they can lead to a delay or cessation of drug manufacture on the affected line(s). Such media fill failures at our contractor manufacturers could delay the production of clinical or commercial supplies of carfilzomib. In addition, marketed drugs and their contract manufacturing organizations are subject to continual 30 Table of Contents review, including review and approval of their manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing processes, which can result in delays in the regulatory approval process and/or commercialization. In addition, discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine may result in restrictions on its permissible uses, or on the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the medicine from the market. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities may also implement additional new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements for the manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. Manufacturing processes and facilities for pharmaceutical products are highly regulated. Regulatory authorities may chose not to certify or may impose restrictions, or even shut down existing manufacturing facilities which they determine are non-compliant. If we or our third party manufacturers are unable to comply, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval, or if we fail to maintain regulatory approval, this will impair our ability to meet the market demand for our approved drugs, delay ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates or delay our drug applications for regulatory approval. If these third parties do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses to pay for the manufacture of products or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we could be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Our success also depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Nexavar or complaints about Nexavar; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support Nexavar; • not devote the resources necessary to sell Nexavar in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and/or • cease operations. If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, regorafenib or carfilzomib, our business could be harmed. The FDA-approved package insert for Nexavar includes several warnings relating to observed adverse reactions. With continued commercial use of Nexavar and additional clinical trials of Nexavar, we and Bayer have updated and expect to continue to update adverse reactions listed in the package insert to reflect current information. If additional adverse reactions emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the Nexavar patient population, the FDA or other international regulatory agencies could modify or revoke approval of Nexavar or we may choose to withdraw it from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain approval of Nexavar in additional indications and foreign regulatory agencies may decline to approve Nexavar for use in any indication. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar were to suffer harm as a result of their use of Nexavar, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are seeking regulatory approval of carfilzomib. We have observed and reported safety and adverse events in carfilzomib clinical trials, which may increase the risk that FDA, or other regulatory agencies, could reject our application(s) for marketing approval. Similarly Bayer plans to seek regulatory approval for regorafenib, and has reported safety and adverse events in regorafenib trials, which may increase the risk that regulatory agencies could reject marketing approval for regorafenib. Even if we succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for carfilzomib and if Bayer succeeds in obtaining regulatory approval for regorafenib, we expect that their package inserts, if approved, will include information related to safety and adverse events, which could limit the market potential or reimbursability of either or both products. 31 Table of Contents If previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed in Nexavar, carfilzomib, or regorafenib, we may be unable to proceed with further clinical trials, to seek or obtain regulatory approval in one or more indications, or to realize full commercial benefits of our products. In clinical trials, patients may be treated with Nexavar, carfilzomib or regorafenib as a single agent or in combination with other therapies. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to our products, including adverse effects related to the products that are administered in combination with our products. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to adverse conclusions regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar, carfilzomib or regorafenib. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are in violation of federal and state regulations related to the promotion of drugs in the United States or elsewhere. If we have disagreements with Bayer regarding ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals for Nexavar, and the FDA refuses to recognize Onyx as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize Nexavar, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar. For carfilzomib, we are responsible for managing communications with regulatory agencies, including filing investigational new drug applications, filing new drug applications, submission of promotional materials and generally directing the regulatory processes. We have limited experience directing such activities and may not be successful with our planned development strategies, on the planned timelines, or at all. Even if any product candidate is designated for “fast track” or “priority review” status or if we seek approval under accelerated approval (Subpart H) regulations, such designation or approval pathway does not necessarily mean a faster development process or regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. If we fail to conduct any required post-approval studies or if the studies fail to verify that any of our product candidates are safe and effective, our FDA approval could be revoked. If we or Bayer fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. To date, the FDA has approved Nexavar only for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. Physicians are not prohibited from prescribing Nexavar for the treatment of diseases other than advanced kidney cancer or unresectable liver cancer, however, we and Bayer are prohibited from promoting Nexavar for any non-approved indication, often called “off label” promotion. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting off label promotion and the promotion of products for which marketing authorization has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted an off label use may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading and non-promotional medical and scientific communication concerning their products. We engage in the support of medical education activities and engage investigators and potential investigators interested in our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. The market may not accept our products and we may be subject to pharmaceutical pricing and third-party reimbursement pressures. Nexavar, carfilzomib, regorafenib, or our other product candidates that may be approved may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and/or the medical community or the market may not be as large as forecasted. A significant factor that affects market acceptance of our products is the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for patients from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, especially in global markets, and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for 32 Table of Contents Nexavar, carfilzomib or regorafenib, if approved, or any other future product. Governments outside of the US may increase their use of risk-sharing programs, which will only pay for a drug after it demonstrates efficacy in a given patient. In addition, governments may increasingly rely on Heath Technology Assessments to determine payment policy for cancer drugs. Health Technology Assessments are used by governments to assess if health services are safe and cost-effective. In addition, the market for our products may be limited by third-party payers who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If our products are not on the approved lists in one or more countries, our sales may suffer. Non-government organizations can influence the use of our products and reimbursement decisions for our products in the United States and elsewhere. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, a not-for-profit alliance of cancer centers, has issued guidelines for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. These guidelines may affect treating physicians’ use of Nexavar. Nexavar’s success in Europe and other regions, particularly in Asia Pacific, will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. For example, in Europe and in many other international markets, most patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect sales and profitability of Nexavar. In addition, in Europe and in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. In the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, China leads in Nexavar sales, however, reimbursement typically requires multiple steps. Also, in December 2009, health authorities in China published a new National Reimbursement Drug List, or NRDL, which lists medicines that are expected to be sold at government-controlled prices. There were no targeted oncology drugs, including Nexavar, on the NRDL, however, we believe that the Ministry of Human Resource and Social Security, the group responsible for developing the NDRL, plans to establish a mechanism and framework for reimbursement of high-value innovative products, such as targeted oncology drugs. Reimbursement policies are subject to change due to economic, political or competitive factors. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance and commercialization of our products, including the following: • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • treatment guidelines issued by government and non-government agencies; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target patient population; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies, including generic versions of our products, or generic versions of innovative products that compete with our products; • patients’ reliance on patient assistance programs, under which we provide free drug; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If Nexavar, carfilzomib, regorafenib or any of our future products do not achieve market acceptance, we may not realize sufficient revenues from product sales, which may cause our stock price to decline. 33 Table of Contents We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of our acquisition of Proteolix, or any future business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. In 2009 we acquired Proteolix, and in the future we may enter into other acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current business or enter into a new product area. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Proteolix acquisition, or any future acquisition, depends upon the successful integration of the acquired business’ operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The difficulties of integration include, among others: • consolidating research and development operations; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures, including integrating and managing information technology and other support systems and processes; • preserving relationships with third parties, such as regulatory agencies, clinical investigators, key opinion leaders, clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, licensors and suppliers; • appropriately identifying and managing the liabilities of the combined company; • utilizing potential tax assets of the acquired business; and • managing risks associated with acquired facilities, including environmental risks and compliance with laws regulating laboratories. We cannot assure stockholders that we will receive any benefits of the Proteolix acquisition or any other merger or acquisition, or that any of the difficulties described above will not adversely affect us. In addition, integration efforts, such as those for Proteolix, place a significant burden on our management and internal resources, which could result in delays in clinical trial and product development programs and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management’s attention and other company resources. Any of the following risks associated with future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, or sell Nexavar or carfilzomib, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: • difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; • difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • disruption of or delays in ongoing research, clinical trials and development efforts; • diversion of capital and other resources; • assumption of liabilities and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; and • difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. If we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash and investment balances would be reduced which could negatively impact our liquidity, the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. However, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. The significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively 34 Table of Contents impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. If we lose our key employees or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our recent move of our headquarters may cause additional disruption and turnover of employees. The loss of the services of key employees may have an adverse impact on our business unless or until we hire a suitably qualified replacement. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. In order to succeed in our research and development efforts, we will need to continue to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. In April 2011, we moved our corporate headquarters from Emeryville, California to South San Francisco, California. Relocation of our corporate headquarters may make it more difficult to retain certain of our employees, and any resulting need to recruit and train new employees could be disruptive to our business. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. On March 23, 2010, the President signed one of the most significant health care reform measures in decades. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act), substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. A significant portion of the U.S. Nexavar revenue recorded by Bayer is derived from U.S. government healthcare programs, including Medicare. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for pharmaceutical products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, beginning in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell “branded prescription drugs,” which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs or generics) to U.S. government programs. In addition to this recently enacted legislation, there are expected to be other proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these anticipated changes could impose limitations on the prices we or our collaborators will be able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors or may increase the tax requirements for pharmaceutical companies such as ours. While it is too early to predict what affect the recently enacted Health Reform Act or any future legislation or regulation will have on us, such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may need additional funds, our future access to capital is uncertain, and unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. We may need additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming activities related to the development and commercialization of Nexavar and carfilzomib, including manufacturing, clinical trials and regulatory approval. Also, we may need funds to develop our early stage product candidates, to acquire rights to additional product candidates, or acquire new or complementary businesses. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • revenue from our product sales; • global product development and commercialization activities; 35 Table of Contents • the cost involved in enforcing patents against third parties and defending claims by third parties; • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; • the cost of acquiring new or complementary businesses; • competing technological and market developments; and • future fee and milestone payments We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We believe that our existing capital resources and interest thereon will be sufficient to fund our current development plans beyond 2012. However, if we change our development plans, acquire rights to or license additional products, or seek to acquire new or complementary businesses, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. In addition, we anticipate that our expenses related to carfilzomib and our share of expenses under our collaboration with Bayer will increase over the next several years. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we may need to raise additional capital and may be unable to do so. Our general business may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets do not sustain improvement or begin to deteriorate again, it may make any necessary future debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive, and may result in adverse changes to product reimbursement and pricing and sales levels, which would harm our operating results. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is also a possibility that our stock price may decline, due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn, such that we would lose our status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, which allows us to more rapidly and more cost-effectively raise funds in the public markets. Additionally, other challenges resulting from the current economic environment include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, global pricing pressures, increases in national unemployment impacting patients’ ability to access drugs, increases in uninsured or underinsured patients affecting their ability to afford pharmaceutical products and increased U.S. free goods to patients. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. We incurred significant indebtedness through the sale of our 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of the notes and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred $230.0 million of senior indebtedness in August 2009 when we sold $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, or the 2016 Notes. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain additional working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; 36 Table of Contents • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot assure stockholders that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the 2016 Notes, or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the notes and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness. Any default under the notes or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event the conditional conversion features of the 2016 Notes are triggered, holders of the 2016 Notes will be entitled to convert the 2016 Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2016 Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2016 Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2016 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sale of Nexavar and the use of it, carfilzomib, regorafenib and/or other products and product candidates in clinical trials expose us to product liability claims. In the United States, FDA approval of a drug may not offer protection from liability claims under state law (i.e., federal preemption defense), the tort duties for which may vary state to state. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar and/or future products. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in significant losses. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • distraction of management; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. We or Bayer may not be able to protect or enforce our or their intellectual property and we may not be able to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents, effectively maintained as trade secrets, or otherwise protected as confidential information or know-how. We depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • license technology rights from others; • protect trade secrets; 37 Table of Contents • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, particularly generic drug manufacturers. Patents and patent applications covering Nexavar and regorafenib are owned by Bayer. Those Nexavar patents that arose out of our collaboration agreement with Bayer are licensed to us, including two United States patents covering Nexavar and pharmaceutical compositions of Nexavar. Both patents will expire January 12, 2020. These two patents are listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Product List (Orange Book). Based on publicly available information, Bayer also has patents in several European countries covering Nexavar, which will expire in 2020. Bayer has other patents and patent applications pending worldwide that cover Nexavar alone or in combination with other drugs for treating cancer. Certain of these patents may be subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to and the term of which cannot presently be calculated, in part because Bayer does not share with us information related to its Nexavar patent portfolio. We cannot be certain that these issued patents and future patents if they issue will provide adequate protection for Nexavar or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. Similarly, we cannot be certain that the patents and patent applications acquired in the Proteolix acquisition, or licensed to us by any licensor, will provide adequate protection for carfilzomib or any other product, or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. The patents related to carfilzomib and oprozomib will begin to expire in 2025 and 2027, respectively. Third parties may claim to have rights in the assets that we acquired with Proteolix, including carfilzomib, or to have intellectual property rights that will be infringed by our commercialization of the assets that we acquired with Proteolix. For example, an academic institution has notified us that it believes carfilzomib is covered by its intellectual property and that it is owed certain payments. While we disagree with this academic institution’s assertions and will defend our position, such efforts could be expensive and time-consuming and ultimately may not be successful. If third parties were to succeed in such claims, our business and company could be harmed. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Third party patents may cover the materials, methods of treatment or dosage related to our product, or compounds to be used in combination with our products; those third parties may make allegations of infringement. We cannot provide assurances that our products or activities, or those of our licensors or licensees, will not infringe patents or other intellectual property owned by third parties. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar or complementary to ours, including compounds to be used in combination with our products. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may be unable to acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These activities are uncertain, making any outcome difficult to predict and costly and may be a substantial distraction for our management team. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants, including clinical investigators, to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these third parties to publish or otherwise publicly disclose information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations; however, these contracts 38 Table of Contents may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Limited foreign intellectual property protection and compulsory licensing could limit our revenue opportunities. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. In 2009, we became aware that a third-party had filed an opposition proceeding with the Chinese patent office to invalidate the patent that covers Nexavar. Unlike other countries, China has a heightened requirement for patentability, and specifically requires a detailed description of medical uses of a claimed drug, such as Nexavar. The opposer filed an appeal to the Beijing No. 1 Court to which Bayer responded and the Court found in Bayer’s favor. The appeal period for this decision has recently expired, and thus the Nexavar Chinese patent has been upheld. Bayer also has a patent in India that covers Nexavar. Cipla Limited, an Indian generic drug manufacturer, applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for market approval for Nexavar, which Bayer sought to block based on its patent. Bayer sued the DCGI and Cipla Limited in the Delhi High Court requesting an injunction to bar the DCGI from granting Cipla Limited market authorization. The Court ruled against Bayer, stating that in India, unlike the U.S., there is no link between regulatory approval of a drug and its patent status. Bayer appealed, which it recently lost. Consequently, Bayer has appealed to the Indian Supreme Court, and has filed a patent infringement suit against Cipla that is currently pending before the Delhi high court. Some companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe and developing countries, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, Bayer, the owner of the Nexavar patent estate, may have limited remedies if the Nexavar patents are infringed or if Bayer is compelled to grant a license of Nexavar to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents that cover Nexavar. If compulsory licenses were extended to include Nexavar, this could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which may make it difficult to stop infringement. Many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. These factors could also negatively affect our revenue opportunities in those countries. If we use hazardous or potentially hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized 39 Table of Contents with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and manufacturing efforts, which could harm our business. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, and if auctions continue to fail for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. If the issuer of an auction rate security that we hold is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment charge to earnings. Less than 5% of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities. The underlying assets of these securities are student loans substantially backed by the federal government. Due to adverse developments in the credit markets, beginning in February 2008, these securities have experienced failures in the auction process. When an auction fails for amounts we have invested, the security becomes illiquid. In the event of an auction failure, we are not able to access these funds until a future auction on these securities is successful. We have reclassified these securities from current to non-current marketable securities, and if the issuer is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the marketable securities through an impairment charge to earnings. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. Our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Provisions in the indenture for the 2016 Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the 2016 Notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of 2016 Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its notes in connection with such fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2016 Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. 40 Table of Contents As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control of us and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: • our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms; • the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; • all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or 10% or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; and • no cumulative voting. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even at stock prices higher than the then current stock price. We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer’s employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control. The change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 