ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We encounter intense competition from OEMs, all of which have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources. It is estimated that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors like the Company and by distributors of salvage parts. The OEMs are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on perceived quality. Recently, several OEMs have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to meet the lower-priced aftermarket products. If such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, a number of large OEM dealers distribute aftermarket collision parts in addition to distributing OEM collision parts, offering collision repair facilities one-stop shopping for new and aftermarket parts. Other OEM direct and indirect activities designed to eliminate the aftermarket as competition have increased our expenses and are designed to threaten our business. During the past ten years, legislation has been introduced or considered in over 40 states seeking to prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket parts in collision repair and/or require special disclosure before using aftermarket parts in repairs covered by insurance. This legislation is generally introduced and supported at the behest of the OEMs and/or their dealers. At the present time, legislation regulating the use of aftermarket parts has been adopted in over 40 states. The most common form of regulation, adopted in 35 states, requires disclosure to the vehicle owner that aftermarket crash parts will be used in the repair of the vehicle. An estimated 21 states require the aftermarket part to have the name or logo of the manufacturer affixed to the part. A few states (i) require some form of consent from the vehicle owner before aftermarket parts can be used in the repair, (ii) require that before an aftermarket part can be used in the repair of the vehicle, the part must generally be equal or equivalent in fit, quality and performance to the original equipment part it is replacing or (iii) require the use, under certain circumstances, of aftermarket parts which have been certified by an independent testing facility to be of like kind and quality to the original equipment part. Some states require a combination of the types of regulations described above. Ford and General Motors are attempting to use litigation based upon claims of infringement of trademarks or design patents against the Company and certain aftermarket manufacturers located in Taiwan to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket parts. If they are successful it could have a material adverse impact on the Company and the entire aftermarket collision parts industry. CAPA informed certain aftermarket parts manufacturers that it is CAPA’s policy not to certify a part that is the subject of an OEMs patent and removed, and may continue removing, parts from the CAPA certification program. For details regarding the litigation, refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. We depend upon the continued acceptance of aftermarket collision parts by insurance companies in the repair of policyholders’ vehicles. Based upon industry sources, the Company estimates that approximately 85% of automobile collision repair work is paid for all or in part by insurance; accordingly, the Company’s business is highly dependent upon the continued acceptance of aftermarket collision replacement parts by the insurance industry and the governmental agencies that regulate insurance companies and the ability of insurers to recommend the use of such parts for collision repair jobs, as opposed to OEM parts. 7 Table of Contents Our business has been negatively impacted by litigation challenging the use of aftermarket collision replacement parts in the repair of vehicles covered by insurance. Over the past 15 years, there have been numerous lawsuits relating to the use of aftermarket parts in repairing motor vehicles. The majority of these cases have been brought by class action attorneys against insurance companies, primarily alleging a violation of the insurance contract and state consumer protection laws because of the specification of aftermarket crash parts for the repair of policyholders’ vehicles. Plaintiffs’ attorneys allege that aftermarket parts are inferior to OEM parts and thus are incapable of restoring a vehicle to its “pre-loss” condition as required by many insurance policies. The leading case involving aftermarket crash parts—Avery v. State Farm Insurance Company—was brought in the Circuit Court in Marion, Illinois in July 1997 (“Madison County”). In that case, plaintiffs asserted claims for breach of contract, consumer fraud and equitable relief relating to State Farm’s practice at that time of sometimes specifying aftermarket parts rather than OEM parts when adjusting claims for the damage to insured vehicles. It was alleged that this practice breached State Farm’s insurance agreements with its policyholders and was a violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act. In October 1999, after a lengthy trial, the jury in Avery awarded plaintiffs compensatory damages of approximately $586 million. In addition, the judge assessed punitive damages against State Farm of over $600 million. In April 2001, the Appellate Court of Illinois, Fifth District, upheld the verdict, reducing the damages by $130 million, resulting in an aggregate award of $1.06 billion. Thereafter, a Petition for Allowance of Appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court was filed by State Farm. In October 2002, the Illinois Supreme Court agreed to hear the appeal. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the judgments of the Circuit and Appellate Courts resulting in a termination of the case in favor of State Farm. The Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs request for a rehearing. Plaintiffs filed a writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court seeking a reversal of the action by the Illinois Supreme Court. The United States Supreme Court did not grant certiorari and the dismissal of the Avery case is now final. Currently, there are a number of other aftermarket parts cases pending in various jurisdictions across the country, including a statewide class action against the Farmers Group in the State of California. The Company has not been made a party in any of these cases. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not be brought into one of these cases or some other aftermarket parts case in the future. A substantial portion of the Company’s business consists of the distribution of aftermarket collision parts to collision repair shops. The vast majority of the customers of the repair shops are covered by insurance policies. In the event aftermarket collision parts are no longer specified by a number of insurance companies to repair insured vehicles, the aggregate cost to consumers could be substantial and the impact on the Company would be material and adverse. We are dependent upon a relatively small group of suppliers and may be adversely impacted by raw material shortages, primarily steel and nickel and price increases in these materials. The Company is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers. Although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all products distributed by the Company, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. In fiscal 2007, approximately 41% of the products distributed by the Company by dollar amount were manufactured in the United States or Canada and approximately 59% were imported directly or indirectly from manufacturers in Asia. As a result, the Company’s operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China and Taiwan. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves parts manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. 8 Table of Contents We rely upon a fleet of our trucks to deliver substantially all of our products to our customers and increases in fuel prices or other difficulties with our fleet may be material to our results of operations. We use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We estimate that our fleet of trucks travel over 74.0 million miles per year and increases in fuel prices have a negative impact on our results of operations. A decline in the number of collision repairs could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Because our business depends on vehicle accidents for the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, distracted drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, and the conditions of the roadways impact our business. In this regard, a number of states municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. Moreover, rising fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. We are subject to numerous factors that impact our sales and earnings both short-term and long-term, many of which may be adverse. We experience intense competition not only from OEMs but from the many distributors located throughout the country. We compete on the basis of quality, service, and price with the other distributors and our ability to raise prices depends not only on these competitors but on the prices being charged by the OEMs for similar parts. Aftermarket parts generally are priced lower than OEM parts to be competitive. In addition, from time to time the Company is subject to product recalls that could reduce the number of parts available for sale. Other factors discussed above also impact our results. While our sales have increased substantially over each of the last five fiscal years and our net income during the last fiscal year was substantially higher than in the prior fiscal year, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain similar increases in the future. We rely heavily on Information Technology in most aspects of our business from order entry through billing and collection to financial statement preparation and disruptions may adversely impact our business. We employ approximately 40 persons in our Information Technology group. In addition, we rely heavily upon third parties for updating our software systems and operating offsite facilities. Disruptions in our relationships with these outside vendors could be material and adverse to the Company. Further, disruptions in our systems would negatively impact our ability to do business with our customers and if the disruptions continued over a period of time could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. We are subject to compliance with government laws and regulations, including environmental restrictions. The Company is subject to increasing restrictions imposed by various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Various state and federal regulatory agencies, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the EPA and the United States Department of Transportation, have jurisdiction over the Company’s operations with respect to matters including worker safety, community and employee “right-to-know” laws, and laws regarding clean air and water. Under various federal, state and local laws and 9 Table of Contents regulations, an owner or lessee of real estate or the operator of a business may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in, or emanating from, property owned or used in the business, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner, lessee or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other than as described below with respect to its bumper plating operations, at two locations, the Company does not currently generate substantial hazardous waste in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that it currently is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and is not aware of any material environmental problem at any of its current or former facilities. No assurance can be given, however, that the Company’s prior activities or the activities of a prior owner or operator of an acquired service center or other facility did not create a material environmental problem for which the Company could be responsible or that future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable laws and regulations) will not result in material environmental liability to the Company. Furthermore, compliance with legislative or regulatory changes may cause future increases in the Company’s operating costs or otherwise adversely affect operations. Certain of the Company’s products, such as paints and solvents, are highly flammable. Accordingly, the storage and transportation of these materials expose the Company to the inherent risk of fire. During the past three years, two locations have been destroyed by fire, in each case covered by insurance. Our Common Stock is subject to significant fluctuations for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. The trading price of the Company’s Common Stock may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of variations in the Company’s actual or anticipated operating results, changes in general market conditions and other factors. In recent years, the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of a specific company or industry. There can be no assurance that the market price of the Company’s Common Stock will not decline below the current market price or that results in the future may not disappoint and cause an erosion of the stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 