ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our structure as a limited partnership, our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering an investment in our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and other external factors. The amount of cash we can distribute to holders of our Common Units or other partnership securities depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations. The amount of cash we generate from our operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend upon, among other things: Ÿ the amount of natural gas transported in our pipelines and gathering systems; Ÿ the level of throughput in our processing and treating operations; Ÿ the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our gathering, treating, processing, storage and transportation services; Ÿ the price of natural gas; Ÿ the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; Ÿ the weather in our operating areas; Ÿ the cost to us of the propane we buy for resale and the prices we receive for our propane; Ÿ the level of competition from other midstream companies, interstate pipeline companies, propane companies and other energy providers; Ÿ the level of our operating costs; Ÿ prevailing economic conditions; and Ÿ the level of our derivative activities. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will also depend on other factors, such as: Ÿ the level of capital expenditures we make; Ÿ the level of costs related to litigation and regulatory compliance matters; Ÿ the cost of acquisitions, if any; Ÿ the levels of any margin calls that result from changes in commodity prices; Ÿ our debt service requirements; Ÿ fluctuations in our working capital needs; Ÿ our ability to make working capital borrowings under our credit facilities to make distributions; Ÿ our ability to access capital markets; Ÿ restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; and Ÿ the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our General Partner in its discretion for the proper conduct of our business. Because of all these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to our Unitholders. Furthermore, Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We may sell additional limited partner interests, diluting existing interests of Unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue an unlimited number of additional limited partner interests, including securities senior to the Common Units, without the approval of our Unitholders. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities will have the following effects: Ÿ the current proportionate ownership interest of our Unitholders in us will decrease; Ÿ the amount of cash available for distribution on each Common Unit or partnership security may decrease; Ÿ the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished; and Ÿ the market price of the Common Units or partnership securities may decline. Future sales of our units or other limited partner interests in the public market could reduce the market price of Unitholders’ limited partner interests. As of December 31, 2009, ETE owned 62,500,797 ETP Common Units. ETE also owns our General Partner. If ETE were to sell and/or distribute its Common Units to the holders of its equity interests in the future, those holders may dispose of some or all of these units. The sale or disposition of a substantial portion of these units in the public markets could reduce the market price of our outstanding Common Units. In August 2009, we filed a registration statement to register 12,000,000 ETP Common Units held by ETE, which allows ETE to offer and sell these ETP Common Units to the public. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our debt level and debt agreements may limit our ability to make distributions to Unitholders and may limit our future financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.22 billion of consolidated debt, excluding the credit facilities of our joint ventures, which we guarantee in part. Our level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including, among other things: Ÿ a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and will not be available for other purposes, including payment of distributions; Ÿ covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements require us to meet financial tests that may adversely affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business; Ÿ our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general partnership purposes may be limited; Ÿ we may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to similar companies that have less debt; Ÿ we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions as a result of our significant debt level; and Ÿ failure to comply with the various restrictive covenants of the debt agreements could negatively impact our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including our ability to utilize the available capacity under our revolving credit facilities, and our ability to pay our distributions. Completion of pipeline expansion projects will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We plan to fund our expansion capital expenditures, including any future pipeline expansion projects we may undertake, with proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to issue our debt and equity securities on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current revolving credit facility because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If we are unable to finance our expansion projects as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or to revise or cancel our expansion plans. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.22 billion of total debt. A significant increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity could negatively impact our credit ratings or our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our revolving credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in interest rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition to our exposure to commodity prices, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.22 billion of total debt. Approximately $160.0 million of our consolidated debt bears interest at variable interest rates and the remainder bears interest at fixed rates. To the extent that we have debt with variable interest rates that is not hedged, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, we did not have any interest rate swaps outstanding. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our Common Units. Any such reduction in demand for our Common Units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our Common Units to decline. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The credit and risk profile of our General Partner and its owners could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner, and of ETE as the indirect owner of our General Partner, may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a master limited partnership due to the significant influence of our General Partner and indirect owners over our business activities, including our cash distributions, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our General Partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from the Partnership to service their indebtedness. ETE has significant indebtedness outstanding and is dependent principally on the cash distributions from its general and limited partner equity interests in us to service such indebtedness. Any distributions by us to ETE will be made only after satisfying our then current obligations to our creditors. Although we have taken certain steps in our organizational structure, financial reporting and contractual relationships to reflect the separateness of us, ETP GP and ETP LLC from the entities that control ETP GP (ETE and its general partner), our credit ratings and business risk profile could be adversely affected if the ratings and risk profiles of such entities were viewed as substantially lower or riskier than ours. The General Partner is not elected by the Unitholders and cannot be removed without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner and will have no right to elect our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Although our General Partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to our Unitholders, the directors of our General Partner and its general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage the General Partner and its general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of those entities. Furthermore, if the Unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. The General Partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class, including units owned by the General Partner and its affiliates. As of December 31, 2009, ETE and its affiliates held approximately 33% of our outstanding units, with an additional approximate 1% of our outstanding units held by our officers and directors. Consequently, it could be difficult to remove the General Partner without the consent of the General Partner and our related parties. Furthermore, Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the General Partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. The control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without Unitholder consent. The General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the Unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the general partner of our General Partner to transfer its general partner interest in our General Partner to a third party. Any new owner of the General Partner would be in a position to replace the officers of the General Partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by such officers. Unitholders may be required to sell their units to the General Partner at an undesirable time or price. If at any time less than 20% of the outstanding units of any class are held by persons other than the General Partner and its affiliates, the General Partner will have the right to acquire all, but not less than all, of those units at a price no less than their then-current market price. As a consequence, a Unitholder may be required to sell his Common Units at an undesirable time or price. The General Partner may assign this purchase right to any of its affiliates or to us. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The interruption of distributions to us from our operating subsidiaries and equity investees may affect our ability to satisfy our obligations and to make distributions to our partners. We are a holding company with no business operations other than that of our operating subsidiaries. Our only significant assets are the equity interests we own in our operating subsidiaries and equity investees. As a result, we depend upon the earnings and cash flow of our operating subsidiaries and equity investees and the distribution of that cash to us in order to meet our obligations and to allow us to make distributions to our partners. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner may be substantial and may reduce our ability to pay the distributions to Unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our Unitholders, we will reimburse our General Partner for all expenses it has incurred on our behalf. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of these expenses and the payment of these fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to the Unitholders. Our General Partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses and fees. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, Unitholders may have to repay us amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to Unitholders if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and non-recourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law, will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Under Delaware law, an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to our Unitholders and restricts the remedies available to Unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that waive or consent to conduct by our General Partner and its affiliates and which reduce the obligations to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state-law fiduciary duty standards. The following is a summary of the material restrictions contained in our partnership agreement on the fiduciary duties owed by our General Partner to the limited partners. Our partnership agreement: Ÿ permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its “sole discretion.” This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; Ÿ provides that our General Partner is entitled to make other decisions in its “reasonable discretion;” Ÿ generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not involving a required vote of Unitholders must be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our General Partner may consider the interests of all parties involved, including its own. Unless our General Partner has acted in bad faith, the action taken by our General Partner shall not constitute a breach of its fiduciary duty; and 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Ÿ provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for errors of judgment or for any acts or omissions if our General Partner and those other persons acted in good faith. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, a Unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Some of our executive officers and directors face potential conflicts of interest in managing our business. Certain of our executive officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of ETE. These relationships may create conflicts of interest regarding corporate opportunities and other matters. The resolution of any such conflicts may not always be in our or our Unitholders’ best interests. In addition, these overlapping executive officers and directors allocate their time among us and ETE. These officers and directors face potential conflicts regarding the allocation of their time, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The General Partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our Unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires the General Partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the General Partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to Unitholders. Our General Partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit our General Partner to favor its own interests to the detriment of Unitholders. As of December 31, 2009, ETE and its affiliates directly and indirectly owned an aggregate limited partner interest in us of approximately 33% and our officers and directors owned approximately 1% of the limited partner interests in us. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of relationships between our General Partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over the interests of the Unitholders. The nature of these conflicts includes the following considerations: Ÿ Remedies are available to Unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be deemed a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. Ÿ Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to us in resolving conflicts of interest, thereby limiting its fiduciary duties to us. Ÿ Our General Partner’s affiliates are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those in direct competition with us. Ÿ Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to Unitholders. Ÿ Our General Partner determines whether to issue additional units or other equity securities of us. Ÿ Our General Partner determines which costs are reimbursable by us. Ÿ Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Ÿ Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Ÿ Our General Partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Ÿ In some instances, our General Partner may borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions. Affiliates of our General Partner may compete with us. Except as provided in our Partnership Agreement, affiliates and related parties of our General Partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Enterprise GP currently has a 40.6% non-controlling equity interest in LE GP, LLC, ETE’s general partner. Additionally, two directors of the general partner of Enterprise GP, including its Chairman, currently serve as directors LE GP, LLC. Enterprise GP and its subsidiaries own and operate North American midstream energy business that competes with us with respect to our natural gas midstream business. Risks Related to Our Business We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and an increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our Unitholders. The risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. Participants in the energy industry have been subjected to heightened scrutiny from the financial markets in light of past collapses and failures of other energy companies. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. The current tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flows. We are exposed to claims by third parties related to the claims that were previously brought against us by the FERC. On July 26, 2007, the FERC issued to us an Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalties (the “Order and Notice”) that contains allegations that we violated FERC rules and regulations. The FERC alleged that we engaged in manipulative or improper trading activities in the Houston Ship Channel, primarily on two dates during the fall of 2005 following the occurrence of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, as well as on eight other occasions from December 2003 through August 2005, in order to benefit financially from our commodities derivatives positions and from certain of our index-priced physical gas purchases in the Houston Ship Channel. The FERC alleged that during these periods we violated the FERC’s then-effective Market Behavior Rule 2, an anti-market manipulation rule promulgated by the FERC under authority of the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”). The FERC alleged that we violated this rule by artificially suppressing prices that were included in the Platts Inside FERC Houston Ship Channel index, published by McGraw-Hill Companies, on which the pricing of many physical natural gas contracts and financial derivatives are based. In its Order and Notice, the FERC also alleged that we manipulated daily prices at the Waha and Permian Hubs in west Texas on two dates. The FERC also alleged that one of our intrastate pipelines violated various FERC regulations by, among other things, granting undue preferences in favor of an affiliate. In its Order and Notice, the FERC specified that it was seeking $69.9 million in disgorgement of profits, plus interest, and $82.0 million in civil penalties relating to these market manipulation claims. The FERC specified that it was also seeking to revoke, for a period of 12 months, our 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements blanket marketing authority for sales of natural gas in interstate commerce at market-based prices. In February 2008, the FERC’s Enforcement Staff also recommended that the FERC pursue market manipulation claims related to our trading activities in October 2005 for November 2005 monthly deliveries, a period not previously covered by the FERC’s allegations in the Order and Notice, and that we be assessed an additional civil penalty of $25.0 million and be required to disgorge approximately $7.3 million of alleged unjust profits related to this additional month. On August 26, 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the FERC’s Enforcement Staff with respect to the pending FERC claims against us and, on September 21, 2009, the FERC approved the settlement agreement without modification. The agreement settles all outstanding FERC claims against us and provides that we make a $5.0 million payment to the federal government and establish a $25.0 million fund for the purpose of settling related third-party claims against us, including existing litigation claims as well as any new claims that may be asserted against this fund. An administrative law judge appointed by the FERC will determine the validity of any third party claim against this fund. Any party who receives money from this fund will be required to waive all claims against us related to this matter. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the FERC made no findings of fact or conclusions of law. In addition, the settlement agreement specifies that by exceeding the settlement agreement we do not admit or concede to the FERC or any third party any actual or potential fault, wrongdoing or liability in connection with our alleged conduct related to the FERC claims. The settlement agreement also requires us to maintain specified compliance programs and to conduct independent annual audits of such programs for a two-year period. We made the $5.0 million payment and established the $25.0 million fund in October 2009. The allocation of the $25.0 million fund is expected to be determined in 2010. In addition to the FERC legal action, third parties have asserted claims and may assert additional claims against us and ETE alleging damages related to these matters. In this regard, several natural gas producers and a natural gas marketing company have initiated legal proceedings in Texas state courts against us and ETE for claims related to the FERC claims. These suits contain contract and tort claims relating to alleged manipulation of natural gas prices at the Houston Ship Channel and the Waha Hub in West Texas, as well as the natural gas price indices related to these markets and the Permian Basin natural gas price index during the period from December 2003 through December 2006, and seek unspecified direct, indirect, consequential and exemplary damages. One of the suits against us and ETE contains an additional allegation that we and ETE transported gas in a manner that favored our affiliates and discriminated against the plaintiff, and otherwise artificially affected the market price of gas to other parties in the market. We have moved to compel arbitration and/or contested subject-matter jurisdiction in some of these cases. In one of these cases, the Texas Supreme Court ruled on July 3, 2009 that the state district court erred in ruling that a plaintiff was entitled to pre-arbitration discovery and therefore remanded to the state district court with a direction to rule on our original motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the terms of the arbitration clause in a natural gas contract between us and the plaintiff. This plaintiff has filed a motion with the Texas Supreme Court requesting a rehearing of the ruling. In February 2008, we were served with a complaint from an owner of royalty interests in natural gas producing properties, individually and on behalf of a putative class of similarly situated royalty owners, working interest owners and producer/operators, seeking arbitration to recover damages based on alleged manipulation of natural gas prices at the Houston Ship Channel. We filed an original action in Harris County state court seeking a stay of the arbitration on the ground that the action is not arbitrable, and the state court granted our motion for summary judgment on that issue. This action is currently on appeal before the First Court of Appeals, Houston, Texas. In October 2007, a consolidated class action complaint was filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. This action alleges that we engaged in intentional and unlawful manipulation of the price of natural gas futures and options contracts on the NYMEX in violation of the CEA. It is further alleged that during the class period from December 29, 2003 to December 31, 2005, we had the market power to 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements manipulate index prices, and that we used this market power to artificially depress the index prices at major natural gas trading hubs, including the Houston Ship Channel, in order to benefit our natural gas physical and financial trading positions, and that we intentionally submitted price and volume trade information to trade publications. This complaint also alleges that we violated the CEA by knowingly aiding and abetting violations of the CEA. The plaintiffs state that this allegedly unlawful depression of index prices by us manipulated the NYMEX prices for natural gas futures and options contracts to artificial levels during the class period, causing unspecified damages to the plaintiffs and all other members of the putative class who sold natural gas futures or who purchased and/or sold natural gas options contracts on NYMEX during the class period. The plaintiffs have requested certification of their suit as a class action and seek unspecified damages, court costs and other appropriate relief. On January 14, 2008, we filed a motion to dismiss this suit on the grounds of failure to allege facts sufficient to state a claim. On March 20, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second consolidated class action complaint. In response to this new pleading, on May 5, 2008, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. On March 26, 2009, the court issued an order dismissing the complaint, with prejudice, for failure to state a claim. On April 9, 2009, the plaintiffs moved for reconsideration of the order dismissing the complaint, and on August 26, 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration. On September 28, 2009, these decisions were appealed by the plaintiffs to the United States Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit, and the appeal is currently in briefing stage before the court. In March 2008, a second class action complaint was filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. This action alleges that we engaged in unlawful restraint of trade and intentional monopolization and attempted monopolization of the market for fixed-price natural gas baseload transactions at the Houston Ship Channel from December 2003 through December 2005 in violation of federal antitrust law. The complaint further alleges that during this period we exerted monopoly power to suppress the price for these transactions to non-competitive levels in order to benefit our own physical natural gas positions. The plaintiff has, individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated sellers of physical natural gas, requested certification of its suit as a class action and seeks unspecified treble damages, court costs and other appropriate relief. On May 19, 2008, we filed a motion to dismiss this complaint. On March 26, 2009, the court issued an order dismissing the complaint. The court found that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim on all causes of action and for antitrust injury, but granted leave to amend. On April 23, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend to assert a claim for common law fraud and attached a proposed amended complaint as an exhibit. We opposed the motion and cross-moved to dismiss. On August 7, 2009, the court denied the plaintiff’s motion and granted our motion to dismiss the complaint. On September 10, 2009, this decision was appealed by the plaintiff to the United States Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit, and the appeal is currently in briefing stage before the court. We are expensing the legal fees, consultants’ fees and other expenses relating to these matters in the periods in which such costs are incurred. We do not have any accruals for litigation and other contingencies as of December 31, 2009. Although the $25.0 million fund required by the settlement agreement with the FERC is to be applied to resolve third party claims, including the existing third party litigation described above, it is possible that the amount we become obliged to pay to resolve third party litigation related to these matters, whether on a negotiated settlement basis or otherwise, will exceed the amount of the fund. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we will review the amount of our accrual related to these matters as developments related to these matters occur and we will adjust our accrual if we determine that it is probable that the amount we may ultimately become obliged to pay as a result of the final resolution of these matters is greater than the amount of our accrual for these matters. As our accrual amounts are non-cash, any cash payment of an amount in resolution of these matters would likely be made from cash from operations or borrowings, which payments would reduce our cash available to service our indebtedness either directly or as a result of increased principal and interest payments necessary to service any borrowings incurred to finance such payments. If these payments are substantial, we may experience a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our liquidity. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The profitability of certain activities in our midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations are largely dependent upon natural gas commodity prices, price spreads between two or more physical locations and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are factors beyond our control and have been volatile. Income from our midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations is exposed to risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. For a portion of the natural gas gathered at the North Texas System, Southeast Texas System and at the HPL System, we purchase natural gas from producers at the wellhead and then gather and deliver the natural gas to pipelines where we typically resell the natural gas under various arrangements, including sales at index prices. Generally, the gross margins we realize under these arrangements decrease in periods of low natural gas prices. For a portion of the natural gas gathered and processed at the North Texas System and Southeast Texas System, we enter into percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, keep-whole arrangements, and processing fee agreements pursuant to which we agree to gather and process natural gas received from the producers. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally sell the residue gas and NGLs at market prices and remit to the producers an agreed upon percentage of the proceeds based on an index price. In other cases, instead of remitting cash payments to the producer, we deliver an agreed upon percentage of the residue gas and NGL volumes to the producer and sell the volumes we keep to third parties at market prices. Under these arrangements, our revenues and gross margins decline when natural gas prices and NGL prices decrease. Accordingly, a decrease in the price of natural gas or NGLs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under keep-whole arrangements, we generally sell the NGLs produced from our gathering and processing operations to third parties at market prices. Because the extraction of the NGLs from the natural gas during processing reduces the Btu content of the natural gas, we must either purchase natural gas at market prices for return to producers or make a cash payment to producers equal to the value of this natural gas. Under these arrangements, our revenues and gross margins decrease when the price of natural gas increases relative to the price of NGLs if we are not able to bypass our processing plants and sell the unprocessed natural gas. Under processing fee agreements, we process the gas for a fee. If recoveries are less than those guaranteed the producer, we may suffer a loss by having to supply liquids or its cash equivalent to keep the producer whole with regard to contractual recoveries. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during our year ended December 31, 2009, the NYMEX settlement price for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $6.14 per MMBtu to a low of $2.84 per MMBtu. A composite of the Mt. Belvieu average NGLs price based upon our average NGLs composition during our year ended December 31, 2009 ranged from a high of approximately $1.17 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.57 per gallon. Our Oasis pipeline, East Texas pipeline, ET Fuel System and HPL System receive fees for transporting natural gas for our customers. Although a significant amount of the pipeline capacity of the East Texas pipeline and various pipeline segments of the ET Fuel System is committed under long-term fee-based contracts, the remaining capacity of our transportation pipelines is subject to fluctuation in demand based on the markets and prices for natural gas, which factors may result in decisions by natural gas producers to reduce production of natural gas during periods of lower prices for natural gas or may result in decisions by end-users of natural gas to reduce consumption of these fuels during periods of higher prices for these fuels. Our fuel retention fees are also directly impacted by changes in natural gas prices. Increases in natural gas prices tend to increase our fuel retention fees, and decreases in natural gas prices tend to decrease our fuel retention fees. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: Ÿ the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; Ÿ the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Ÿ the availability of imported oil and natural gas; Ÿ actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; Ÿ the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; Ÿ the price, availability and marketing of competitive fuels; Ÿ the demand for electricity; Ÿ the impact of energy conservation efforts; and Ÿ the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. The use of derivative financial instruments could result in material financial losses by us. From time to time, we have sought to limit a portion of the adverse effects resulting from changes in natural gas and other commodity prices and interest rates by using derivative financial instruments and other risk management mechanisms and by our marketing and/or system optimization activities. To the extent that we hedge our commodity price and interest rate exposures, we forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. In addition, even though monitored by management, our derivatives activities can result in losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the derivative arrangement, the hedge is imperfect, commodity prices move unfavorably related to our physical or financial positions or hedging policies and procedures are not followed. Our success depends upon our ability to continually contract for new sources of natural gas supply. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and asset utilization rates at our treating and processing plants, we must continually contract for new natural gas supplies and natural gas transportation services. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies for our natural gas gathering systems, and we may be unable to maintain or increase the levels of natural gas throughput on our transportation pipelines. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity and production of natural gas near our gathering systems or in areas that provide access to our transportation pipelines or markets to which our systems connect. The primary factors affecting our ability to attract customers to our transportation pipelines consist of our access to other natural gas pipelines, natural gas markets, natural gas-fired power plants and other industrial end-users and the level of drilling and production of natural gas in areas connected to these pipelines and systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity and production generally decrease as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline, sometimes referred to as the “decline rate.” In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. A substantial portion of our assets, including our gathering systems and our processing and treating plants, are connected to natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, our cash flows will also decline unless we are able to access new supplies of natural gas by connecting additional production to these systems. Our transportation pipelines are also dependent upon natural gas production in areas served by our pipelines or in areas served by other gathering systems or transportation pipelines that connect with our transportation pipelines. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation or in other areas that are connected to our 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements areas of operation by third party gathering systems or pipelines, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas we handle, which would reduce our revenues and operating income. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. Transwestern derives a significant portion of its revenue from charging its customers for reservation of capacity, which revenues Transwestern receives regardless of whether these customers actually use the reserved capacity. Transwestern also generates revenue from transportation of natural gas for customers without reserved capacity. If the reserves available through the supply basins connected to Transwestern’s systems decline, a decrease in development or production activity could cause a decrease in the volume of natural gas available for transmission or a decrease in demand for natural gas transportation on the Transwestern system over the long run. The volumes of natural gas we transport on our intrastate transportation pipelines may be reduced in the event that the prices at which natural gas is purchased and sold at the Waha Hub, the Katy Hub, the Carthage Hub and the Houston Ship Channel Hub, the four major natural gas trading hubs served by our pipelines, become unfavorable in relation to prices for natural gas at other natural gas trading hubs or in other markets as customers may elect to transport their natural gas to these other hubs or markets using pipelines other than those we operate. We may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy if we encounter increased competition for qualified assets. Our strategy contemplates growth through the development and acquisition of a wide range of midstream, transportation, storage, propane and other energy infrastructure assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet. This strategy includes constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses to enhance our ability to compete effectively and diversify our asset portfolio, thereby providing more stable cash flow. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding, and are currently contemplating, the acquisition of additional assets and businesses, stand alone development projects or other transactions that we believe will present opportunities to realize synergies and increase our cash flow. Consistent with our acquisition strategy, we are continuously engaged in discussions with potential sellers regarding the possible acquisition of additional assets or businesses. Such acquisition efforts may involve our participation in processes that involve a number of potential buyers, commonly referred to as “auction” processes, as well as situations in which we believe we are the only party or one of a very limited number of potential buyers in negotiations with the potential seller. We cannot give assurance that our current or future acquisition efforts will be successful or that any such acquisition will be completed on terms considered favorable to us. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the assets we purchase or contemplate purchasing. Increased competition for a limited pool of assets could result in us losing to other bidders more often or acquiring assets at higher prices, both of which would limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Inability to execute our growth strategy may materially adversely impact our results of operations. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $745.6 million of goodwill and $206.4 million of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur, indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets such as intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a correlative effect on partners’ capital and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth could be limited. Our results of operations and our ability to grow and to increase distributions to Unitholders will depend in part on our ability to make acquisitions that are accretive to our distributable cash flow per unit. We may be unable to make accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons, among others: Ÿ because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; Ÿ because we are unable to raise financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or Ÿ because we are outbid by competitors, some of which are substantially larger than us and have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital then we do. Furthermore, even if we consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, those acquisitions may in fact adversely affect our results of operations or result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including the risk that we may: Ÿ fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; Ÿ decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; Ÿ significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; Ÿ encounter difficulties operating in new geographic areas or new lines of business; Ÿ incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or assets acquired for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate; Ÿ be unable to hire, train or retrain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; Ÿ less effectively manage our historical assets, due to the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; or Ÿ incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. If we consummate future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. As we determine the application of our funds and other resources, Unitholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate the economics, financial and other relevant information that we will consider. If we do not continue to construct new pipelines, our future growth could be limited. During the past several years, we have constructed several new pipelines, and are currently involved in constructing several new pipelines. Our results of operations and ability to grow and to increase distributable cash flow per unit will depend, in part, on our ability to construct pipelines that are accretive to our distributable cash flow. We may be unable to construct pipelines that are accretive to distributable cash flow for any of the following reasons, among others: Ÿ we are unable to identify pipeline construction opportunities with favorable projected financial returns; Ÿ we are unable to raise financing for its identified pipeline construction opportunities; or Ÿ we are unable to secure sufficient natural gas transportation commitments from potential customers due to competition from other pipeline construction projects or for other reasons. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Furthermore, even if we construct a pipeline that we believe will be accretive, the pipeline may in fact adversely affect our results of operations or results from those projected prior to commencement of construction and other factors. Expanding our business by constructing new pipelines and treating and processing facilities subjects us to risks. One of the ways that we have grown our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation systems. The construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding additional compression capabilities or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, and the construction of new processing or treating facilities, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital that we will be required to finance through borrowings, the issuance of additional equity or from operating cash flow. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at all, or at the budgeted cost. We currently have several major expansion and new build projects planned or underway, including the Fayetteville Express pipeline and the Tiger pipeline. A variety of factors outside our control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as the performance by third party contractors has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. Cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately following the completion of a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, but we may not materially increase our revenues until long after the project’s completion. In addition, the success of a pipeline construction project will likely depend upon the level of natural gas exploration and development drilling activity and the demand for pipeline transportation in the areas proposed to be serviced by the project as well as our ability to obtain commitments from producers in this area to utilize the newly constructed pipelines. In this regard, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may be unable to attract enough throughput or contracted capacity reservation commitments to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on certain key producers for our supply of natural gas on the Southeast Texas System and North Texas System, and the loss of any of these key producers could adversely affect our financial results. For our year ended December 31, 2009, EnCana Oil and Gas (USA), Inc., XTO Energy Inc. (“XTO”), SandRidge Energy Inc., and EnerVest Operating, LLC, supplied us with approximately 70% of the Southeast Texas System’s natural gas supply. In December 2009, Exxon Mobil Corporation (“ExxonMobil”) and XTO announced an agreement whereby ExxonMobil will acquire XTO. For our year ended December 31, 2009, Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., XTO, EOG Resources, Inc., and EnCana Oil and Gas (USA), Inc., supplied us with approximately 84% of the North Texas System’s natural gas supply. We are not the only option available to these producers for disposition of the natural gas they produce. To the extent that these and other producers may reduce the volumes of natural gas that they supply us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to acquire comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. We depend on key customers to transport natural gas through our pipelines. We have nine- and ten-year fee-based transportation contracts with XTO that terminate in 2013 and 2017, respectively, pursuant to which XTO has committed to transport certain minimum volumes of natural gas on pipelines in our ET Fuel System. ExxonMobil’s pending acquisition of XTO, expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2010, is not expected to result in any changes to these commitments. We also have an eight-year fee-based transportation contract with TXU Portfolio Management Company, L.P., a subsidiary of TXU Corp. (“TXU Shipper”) to transport natural gas on the ET Fuel System to TXU’s electric generating power 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements plants. We have also entered into two eight-year natural gas storage contracts that terminate in 2012 with TXU Shipper to store natural gas at the two natural gas storage facilities that are part of the ET Fuel System. Each of the contracts with TXU Shipper may be extended by TXU Shipper for two additional five-year terms. The failure of XTO Energy or TXU Shipper to fulfill their contractual obligations under these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations if we were not able to replace these customers under arrangements that provide similar economic benefits as these existing contracts. The major shippers on our intrastate transportation pipelines include XTO, EOG Resources, Inc., Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., EnCana Marketing (USA), Inc. and Quicksilver Resources, Inc. These shippers have long-term contracts that have remaining terms ranging from 2 to 11 years. Transwestern generates the majority of its revenues from long-term and short-term firm transportation contracts with natural gas producers, local distribution companies and end-users. During 2009, ConocoPhillips, Salt River Project and BP Energy Company collectively accounted for 32% of Transwestern’s total revenues. The failure of the major shippers on our intrastate and interstate transportation pipelines to fulfill their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations if we were not able to replace these customers under arrangements that provide similar economic benefits as these existing contracts. With respect to our interstate transportation operations, MEP, the joint venture entity formed to construct and operate the Midcontinent Express pipeline, has secured predominantly 10-year firm transportation contracts from a small number of major shippers for all of the current 1.4 Bcf/d of capacity on the Midcontinent Express pipeline. MEP has also secured firm transportation commitments related to additional capacity on the Midcontinent Express pipeline, which expansion was approved by the FERC in September 2009. The planned capacity expansions to 1.8 Bcf/d are expected to be completed in the latter part of 2010. FEP has secured binding 10-year commitments from a small number of major shippers for approximately 1.85 Bcf/d of firm transportation service on the 2.0 Bcf/d Fayetteville Express pipeline project. In connection with our Tiger pipeline project, we have entered into an agreement with Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. that provides for a 15-year commitment for firm transportation capacity of approximately 1.0 Bcf/d. We have also entered into agreements with EnCana Marketing (USA), Inc. and other shippers that provide for 10-year commitments for firm transportation capacity on the Tiger pipeline, bringing the initial design capacity to 2.0 Bcf/d in the aggregate. In February 2010, we announced that we had entered into a 10-year commitment for an additional 400 MMcf/d. The failure of these key shippers to fulfill their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations if we were not able to replace these customers under arrangements that provide similar economic benefits as these existing contracts. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the business and operations of our midstream and intrastate assets. Our midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still significantly affects our business and the market for our products. The rates, terms and conditions of some of the transportation and storage services we provide on the HPL System, the East Texas pipeline, the Oasis pipeline and the ET Fuel System are subject to FERC regulation under Section 311 of the NGPA. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation and storage must be fair and equitable amounts. Amounts collected in excess of fair and equitable rates are subject to refund with interest, and the terms and conditions of service, set forth in the pipeline’s statement of operating conditions, are subject to FERC review and approval. Should the FERC determine not to authorize rates equal to or greater than our currently approved rates, we may suffer a loss of revenue. Failure to observe the service limitations applicable to storage and transportation service under Section 311, and failure to comply with the rates approved by the FERC for Section 311 service, and failure to comply with the terms and conditions of service established in the pipeline’s FERC-approved statement of operating conditions could result in an alteration of jurisdictional status and/or the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements FERC has adopted new market-monitoring and annual and quarterly reporting regulations, which regulations are applicable to many intrastate pipelines as well as other entities that are otherwise not subject to FERC’s NGA jurisdiction, such as natural gas marketers. These regulations are intended to increase the transparency of wholesale energy markets, to protect the integrity of such markets, and to improve FERC’s ability to assess market forces and detect market manipulation. These regulations may result in administrative burdens and additional compliance costs for us. We hold transportation contracts with interstate pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. As a shipper on an interstate pipeline, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of the interstate capacity. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations or orders could result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Our intrastate transportation and storage operations are subject to state regulation in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Louisiana, Utah and Colorado, the states in which we operate these types of natural gas facilities. Our intrastate transportation operations located in Texas are subject to regulation as common purchasers and as gas utilities by the TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates we charge for transportation and storage services are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. Should a complaint be filed or should regulation become more active, our business may be adversely affected. Our midstream and intrastate transportation operations are also subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Louisiana, Utah and Colorado. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering rates and access. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Our storage facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the TRRC. Generally, the TRRC has jurisdiction over all underground storage of natural gas in Texas, unless the facility is part of an interstate gas pipeline facility. Because the natural gas storage facilities of the ET Fuel System and HPL System are only connected to intrastate gas pipelines, they fall within the TRRC’s jurisdiction and must be operated pursuant to TRRC permit. Certain changes in ownership or operation of TRRC-jurisdictional storage facilities, such as facility expansions and increases in the maximum operating pressure, must be approved by the TRRC through an amendment to the facility’s existing permit. In addition, the TRRC must approve transfers of the permits. Texas laws and regulations also require all natural gas storage facilities to be operated to prevent waste, the uncontrolled escape of gas, pollution and danger to life or property. Accordingly, the TRRC requires natural gas storage facilities to implement certain safety, monitoring, reporting and record-keeping measures. Violations of the terms and provisions of a TRRC permit or a TRRC order or regulation can result in the modification, cancellation or suspension of an operating permit and/or civil penalties, injunctive relief, or both. The states in which we conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, which requires certain pipeline companies to comply with safety standards in constructing and operating the pipelines, and subjects pipelines to regular inspections. Some of our gathering facilities are exempt from the requirements of this Act. In respect to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal remedies. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our interstate pipelines are subject to laws, regulations and policies governing the rates they are allowed to charge for their services. Laws, regulations and policies governing interstate natural gas pipeline rates could affect the ability of our interstate pipelines to establish rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. NGA-jurisdictional natural gas companies must charge rates that are deemed just and reasonable by the FERC. The rates charged by natural gas companies are generally required to be on file with the FERC in FERC-approved tariffs. Pursuant to the NGA, existing tariff rates may be challenged by complaint and rate increases proposed by the natural gas company may be challenged by protest. We also may be limited by the terms of negotiated rate agreements from seeking future rate increases, or constrained by competitive factors from charging our FERC-approved maximum just and reasonable tariff rates. Further, rates must, for the most part, be cost-based and the FERC has the ability, on a prospective basis, to order refunds of amounts collected under rates that have been found by the FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. Transwestern made a general rate case filing under Section 4 of the NGA in September 2006. The rates in this proceeding were settled and are final and no longer subject to refund. Transwestern is not required to file a new general rate case until October 2011. However, shippers (other than shippers that have agreed, as parties to the Stipulation and Agreement, not to challenge Transwestern’s tariff rates through the remaining term of the settlement) have the statutory ability to challenge the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC may also investigate such rates absent shipper complaint. Most of the rates to be paid by the initial shippers on the Midcontinent Express pipeline are established pursuant to long-term, negotiated rate transportation agreements. Other prospective shippers on Midcontinent Express pipeline that elect not to pay a negotiated rate for service may opt instead to pay a cost-based recourse rate established by the FERC as part of Midcontinent Express pipeline’s certificate of public convenience and necessity. Negotiated rate agreements generally provide a degree of certainty to the pipeline and shipper as to a fixed rate during the term of the relevant transportation agreement, but such agreements can limit the pipeline’s future ability to collect costs associated with construction and operation of the pipeline that might be higher than anticipated at the time the negotiated rate agreement was entered. FERC applications for authorization to construct, own and operate the Fayetteville Express pipeline and the Tiger pipeline were filed on June 15, 2009 and August 31, 2009, respectively. On December 17, 2009, the FERC issued an order granting authorization to construct, own and operated the Fayetteville Express pipeline, subject to certain conditions. While FEP has accepted the FERC’s certificate authorization, this order is subject to a limited request for rehearing and possible judicial review. FERC has not yet determined whether the Tiger pipeline should be granted the requested authority. We cannot predict if, or when and with what conditions, FERC authorization for the Tiger pipeline will be granted. Any successful challenge to the rates of our interstate natural gas companies, whether brought by complaint, protest or investigation, could reduce our revenues associated with providing transportation services on a prospective basis. We cannot guarantee that our interstate pipelines will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. The ability of interstate pipelines held in tax-pass-through entities, like us, to include an allowance for income taxes in their regulated rates has been subject to extensive litigation before the FERC and the courts, and the FERC’s current policy is subject to future refinement or change. The ability of interstate pipelines held in tax-pass-through entities, like us, to include an allowance for income taxes as a cost-of-service element in their regulated rates has been subject to extensive litigation before the FERC and the courts for a number of years. It is currently the FERC’s policy to permit pipelines to include in cost-of-service a tax allowance to reflect actual or potential income tax liability on their public utility income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests, if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Under the FERC’s policy, we thus remain eligible to include 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements an income tax allowance in the tariff rates we charge for interstate natural gas transportation. The application of that policy remains subject to future refinement or change by the FERC. With regard to rates charged and collected by Transwestern, the allowance for income taxes as a cost-of-service element in our tariff rates is generally not subject to challenge prior to the expiration of our settlement agreement in 2011. The interstate pipelines are subject to laws, regulations and policies governing terms and conditions of service, which could adversely affect their business and operations. In addition to rate oversight, the FERC’s regulatory authority extends to many other aspects of the business and operations of our interstate pipelines, including: Ÿ terms and conditions of service; Ÿ the types of services interstate pipelines may offer their customers; Ÿ construction of new facilities; Ÿ acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; Ÿ reporting and information posting requirements; Ÿ accounts and records; and Ÿ relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. Compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. Future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair the ability of our interstate pipelines to compete for business, may impair their ability to recover costs or may increase the cost and burden of operation. We must on occasion rely upon rulings by FERC or other governmental authorities to carry out certain of our business plans. For example, in order to carry out our plan to construct the Fayetteville Express and Tiger pipelines we have had to, among other things, file and support before FERC NGA Section 7(c) applications for certificates of public convenience and necessity to build, own and operate such facilities. Although the FERC has authorized the construction and operation of the Fayetteville Express pipeline, subject to certain conditions, this order is still subject to limited rehearing and possible judicial review. The FERC has not yet ruled upon the Tiger pipeline application, and we cannot guarantee that FERC will authorize construction and operation of that pipeline or any future interstate natural gas transportation project we might propose. Moreover, there is no guarantee that, if granted, certificate authority for the Tiger pipeline, or any future interstate projects, will be granted in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. Similarly, we were required to obtain from FERC a certificate of public convenience and necessity to build, own and operate the Midcontinent Express pipeline. Although the FERC has granted us such certificate authority, the FERC’s certificate order is currently pending judicial review before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. We cannot guarantee that the court will affirm, in all material respects, the FERC’s July 25, 2008 Midcontinent Express certificate order, or that the FERC will not materially alter the certificate order on any remand that might be ordered by the court. There are also pending requests for rehearing related to certain of the FERC’s post-certification orders related to the MEP project. We cannot guarantee that these post-certification orders will not be altered on rehearing or that these orders will not be subject to judicial review. Failure to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. The FERC possesses similar authority under the NGPA. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which we will operate our interstate pipelines or the effect such regulation could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Our natural gas as well as our propane operations are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits for our operations, result in capital expenditures to manage, limit or prevent emissions, discharges or releases of various materials from our pipelines, plants and facilities and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Several governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them and frequently mandate difficult and costly remediation measures and other actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctive relief. We may incur substantial environmental costs and liabilities because of the underlying risk inherent to our operations. Environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liabilities for cleanup costs incurred to address discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for industrial activities for a number of years, even if such discharges were caused by our predecessors. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass or facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, personal injury or property damage. The total accrued future estimated cost of remediation activities relating to our Transwestern pipeline operations expected to continue through 2018 is $8.6 million. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, emission standards, or storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. For example, the EPA in 2008 lowered the federal ozone standard from 0.08 parts per million to 0.075 parts per million, requiring the environmental agencies in states with areas that do not currently meet this standard to adopt new rules between to further reduce NOx and other ozone precursor emissions. The EPA recently proposed to lower the standard even further, to somewhere between 0.060 and 0.070 ppm. We have previously been able to satisfy the more stringent NOx emission reduction requirements that affect our compressor units in ozone non-attainment areas at reasonable cost, but there is no guarantee that the changes we may have to make in the future to meet the new ozone standard or other evolving standards will not require us to incur costs that could be material to our operations. In response to scientific studies suggesting that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, there are a number of parallel initiatives to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases. On June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide “cap and trade” program to reduce domestic emissions of greenhouse gases. ACESA would require a 17 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80 percent reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions or suppliers of carbon-based fuels so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere or market such fuels. The market price of these allowances would be expected to increase significantly over time, thereby encouraging the use of alternative energy sources or greenhouse gas emission control technologies by imposing ever-increasing costs on the use of carbon-based fuels, including NGLs, natural gas, refined petroleum products, and oil. The United States Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and President Obama has indicated his support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas “cap and trade” programs. These programs operate similarly to the program contemplated by ACESA. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender emission allowances, either for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations (e.g., compressor stations) or from the combustion of fuels (e.g., natural gas or NGLs) that we process. Also, as a result of the United States Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al.v. EPA, EPA was required to determine whether greenhouse gas emissions posed an endangerment to human health and the environment and whether emissions from mobile sources, such as cars and trucks contributed to that endangerment. On December 7, 2009, the EPA announced its findings that emissions of greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere causing other climatic changes and that mobile sources are contributing to such endangerment. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, EPA proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its endangerment finding: one to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other to control emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources. Although the motor vehicle rules are expected to be adopted in March 2010, it may take EPA several years to impose regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the annual reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including NGL fractionators and local natural gas distribution companies. Any federal greenhouse gas legislation is expected to prevent EPA from regulating greenhouse gases under existing Clean Air Act regulatory programs to some extent, but if Congress fails to pass greenhouse gas legislation, the EPA is expected to continue its announced greenhouse gas regulatory actions under the Clean Air Act. Any limitation on emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations or the requirement that we obtain allowances for such emissions, as well as the NGLs that we produce, could require us to incur significant costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or acquire allowances at the prevailing rates in the marketplace. Some have suggested that one consequence of climate change could be increased severity of extreme weather, such as increased hurricanes and floods. If such effects were to occur, our operations could be adversely affected in various ways, including damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters, or increased costs for insurance. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. The market for our propane and natural gas is generally improved by periods of colder weather and impaired by periods of warmer weather, so any changes in climate could affect the market the fuels that we produce. Despite the use of the term “global warming” as a shorthand for climate change, some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience substantially colder temperatures than their historical averages. As a result, it is difficult to predict how the market for our fuels would be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it would be expected to have an adverse effect on our business. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, our shippers in interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. Users of our pipelines are dependent upon connections to and from third-party pipelines to receive and deliver natural gas and NGLs. Any reduction in the capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes being transported in our pipelines. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of natural gas and NGLs over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to existing shippers in these pipelines would be reduced, which could also reduce volumes transported in our pipelines. Any reduction in volumes transported in our pipelines would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be impacted by competition from other midstream, transportation and storage companies and propane companies. We experience competition in all of our markets. Our principal areas of competition include obtaining natural gas supplies for the Southeast Texas System, North Texas System and HPL System and natural gas transportation customers for our transportation pipeline systems. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, treat, process, transport, store and market natural gas. The Southeast Texas System competes with natural gas gathering and processing systems owned by DCP Midstream, LLC. The North Texas System competes with Crosstex North Texas Gathering, LP and Devon Gas Services, LP for gathering and processing. The East Texas pipeline competes with other natural gas transportation pipelines that serve the Bossier Sands area in east Texas and the Barnett Shale region in north Texas. The ET Fuel System and the Oasis pipeline compete with a number of other natural gas pipelines, including interstate and intrastate pipelines that link the Waha Hub. The ET Fuel System competes with other natural gas transportation pipelines serving the Dallas/Ft. Worth area and other pipelines that serve the east central Texas and south Texas markets. Pipelines that we compete with in these areas include those owned by Atmos Energy Corporation, Enterprise Products Partners, L.P. and Enbridge, Inc. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and access to larger natural gas supplies than we do. The acquisitions of the HPL System and the Transwestern pipeline increased the number of interstate pipelines and natural gas markets to which we have access and expanded our principal areas of competition to areas such as southeast Texas and the Texas Gulf Coast. As a result of our expanded market presence and diversification, we face additional competitors, such as major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, treat, process, transport, store and market natural gas, that may have greater financial resources and access to larger natural gas supplies than we do. The Transwestern pipeline and the Midcontinent Express pipeline (and upon completion the Fayetteville Express and Tiger pipelines) compete with other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to sources of supply and the flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to our customers and end-users, including for example, electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the levels of natural gas transportation volumes in the areas served by our pipelines. Our propane business competes with a number of large national and regional propane companies and several thousand small independent propane companies. Because of the relatively low barriers to entry into the retail propane market, there is potential for small independent propane retailers, as well as other companies that may not currently be engaged in retail propane distribution, to compete with our retail outlets. As a result, we are always subject to the risk of additional competition in the future. Generally, warmer-than-normal weather further intensifies competition. Most of our propane retail branch locations compete with several other marketers or distributors in their service areas. The principal factors influencing competition with other retail propane marketers are: Ÿ price, Ÿ reliability and quality of service, Ÿ responsiveness to customer needs, Ÿ safety concerns, Ÿ long-standing customer relationships, Ÿ the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers, and Ÿ the lack of growth in the industry. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The inability to continue to access tribal lands could adversely affect Transwestern’s ability to operate its pipeline system and the inability to recover the cost of right-of-way grants on tribal lands could adversely affect its financial results. Transwestern’s ability to operate its pipeline system on certain lands held in trust by the United States for the benefit of a Native American Tribe, which we refer to as tribal lands, will depend on its success in maintaining existing rights-of-way and obtaining new rights-of-way on those tribal lands. Securing extensions of existing and any additional rights-of-way is also critical to Transwestern’s ability to pursue expansion projects. We cannot provide any assurance that Transwestern will be able to acquire new rights-of-way on tribal lands or maintain access to existing rights-of-way upon the expiration of the current grants. Our financial position could be adversely affected if the costs of new or extended right-of-way grants cannot be recovered in rates. Transwestern’s existing right-of-way agreements with the Navajo Nation, Southern Ute, Pueblo of Laguna and Fort Mojave tribes extend through November 2029, September 2020, December 2022 and April 2019, respectively. We may be unable to bypass the processing plants, which could expose us to the risk of unfavorable processing margins. Because of our ownership of the Oasis pipeline and ET Fuel System, we can generally elect to bypass our processing plants when processing margins are unfavorable and instead deliver pipeline-quality gas by blending rich gas from the gathering systems with lean gas transported on the Oasis pipeline and ET Fuel System. In some circumstances, such as when we do not have a sufficient amount of lean gas to blend with the volume of rich gas that we receive at the processing plant, we may have to process the rich gas. If we have to process when processing margins are unfavorable, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We may be unable to retain existing customers or secure new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 26% of our sales of natural gas was to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are increasingly reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are many companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on our profitability. Our storage business may depend on neighboring pipelines to transport natural gas. To obtain natural gas, our storage business depends on the pipelines to which they have access. Many of these pipelines are owned by parties not affiliated with us. Any interruption of service on those pipelines or adverse change in their terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport natural gas to and from our facilities and a corresponding material adverse effect on our storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by those interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities affect the utilization and value of our storage services. Significant changes in the rates charged by those pipelines or the rates charged by other pipelines with which the interconnected pipelines compete could also have a material adverse effect on our storage revenues. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our pipeline integrity program may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. Our pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the DOT, under the PHMSA, pursuant to which the PHMSA has established requirements relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the PHMSA, through the Office of Pipeline Safety, has promulgated a rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as “high consequence areas.” Activities under these integrity management programs involve the performance of internal pipeline inspections, pressure testing or other effective means to assess the integrity of these regulated pipeline segments, and the regulations require prompt action to address integrity issues raised by the assessment and analysis. Based on the results of our current pipeline integrity testing programs, we estimate that compliance with these federal regulations and analogous state pipeline integrity requirements will result in capital costs of $20.5 million and operating and maintenance costs of $20.4 million over the course of the next year. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, $31.4 million and $23.3 million, respectively, of capital costs and $18.5 million and $13.1 million, respectively, of operating and maintenance costs have been incurred for pipeline integrity testing. Integrity testing and assessment of all of these assets will continue, and the potential exists that results of such testing and assessment could cause us to incur even greater capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. Since weather conditions may adversely affect demand for propane, our financial conditions may be vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for heating purposes because the majority of our customers rely heavily on propane as a heating fuel. Typically, we sell approximately two-thirds of our retail propane volume during the peak-heating season of October through March. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by warmer winter weather, which results in lower sales volumes. In addition, to the extent that warm weather or other factors adversely affect our operating and financial results, our access to capital and our acquisition activities may be limited. Variations in weather in one or more of the regions where we operate can significantly affect the total volume of propane that we sell and the profits realized on these sales. Agricultural demand for propane may also be affected by weather, including unseasonably cold or hot periods or dry weather conditions that impact agricultural operations. A natural disaster, catastrophe or other event could result in severe personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail our operations and otherwise materially adversely affect our cash flow and, accordingly, affect the market price of our Common Units. Some of our operations involve risks of personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail our operations and otherwise materially adversely affect our cash flow. For example, natural gas facilities operate at high pressures, sometimes in excess of 1,100 pounds per square inch. Virtually all of our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods and/or earthquakes. If one or more facilities that are owned by us, or that deliver natural gas or other products to us, are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, our operations could be significantly interrupted. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that supply our facilities or other stoppages arising from factors beyond our control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to people, property or the environment, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to six months or more for a major interruption. Any event that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could reduce our cash available for paying distributions to our Unitholders and, accordingly, adversely affect the market price of our Common Units. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, including our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack on our facilities or pipelines or those of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sudden and sharp propane price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect our profit margins. The propane industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profits depend on the excess of sales prices over supply costs. As a result, our profitability is sensitive to changes in energy prices, and in particular, changes in wholesale prices of propane. When there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of propane, we may be unable to pass on these increases to our customers through retail or wholesale prices. Propane is a commodity and the price we pay for it can fluctuate significantly in response to changes in supply or other market conditions over which we have no control. In addition, the timing of cost pass-throughs can significantly affect margins. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce our gross profits and could, if continued over an extended period of time, reduce demand by encouraging our retail customers to conserve their propane usage or convert to alternative energy sources. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by price and inventory risk related to our propane business and management of these risks. We generally attempt to minimize our cost and inventory risk related to our propane business by purchasing propane on a short-term basis under supply contracts that typically have a one-year term and at a cost that fluctuates based on the prevailing market prices at major delivery points. In order to help ensure adequate supply sources are available during periods of high demand, we may purchase large volumes of propane during periods of low demand or low price, which generally occur during the summer months, for storage in our facilities, at major storage facilities owned by third parties or for future delivery. This strategy may not be effective in limiting our cost and inventory risks if, for example, market, weather or other conditions prevent or allocate the delivery of physical product during periods of peak demand. If the market price falls below the cost at which we made such purchases, it could adversely affect our profits. Some of our propane sales are pursuant to commitments at fixed prices. To mitigate the price risk related to our anticipated sales volumes under the commitments, we may purchase and store physical product and/or enter into fixed price over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts and options. Generally, over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts have terms of less than one year. We enter into such contracts and exercise such options at volume levels that we believe are necessary to manage these commitments. The risk management of our inventory and contracts for the future purchase of product could impair our profitability if the customers do not fulfill their obligations. We also engage in other trading activities, and may enter into other types of over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts and options. These trading activities are based on our management’s estimates of future events and prices and are intended to generate a profit. However, if those estimates are incorrect or other market events outside of our control occur, such activities could generate a loss in future periods and potentially impair our profitability. 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are dependent on our principal propane suppliers, which increases the risk of an interruption in supply. During 2009, we purchased approximately 50.3%, 14.3% and 15.1% of our propane from Enterprise, Targa and M.P. Oils, Ltd., respectively. Enterprise is a subsidiary of Enterprise GP, an entity that owns approximately 17.6% of ETE’s outstanding Common Units and a 40.6% non-controlling equity interest in the general partner of ETE. Titan purchases the majority of its propane from Enterprise pursuant to an agreement that expires in 2010 and contains renewal and extension options. If supplies from these sources were interrupted, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and, at least on a short-term basis, margins could be adversely affected. Supply from Canada is subject to the additional risk of disruption associated with foreign trade such as trade restrictions, shipping delays and political, regulatory and economic instability. Historically, a substantial portion of the propane that we purchase has originated from one of the industry’s major markets located in Mt. Belvieu, Texas and has been shipped to us through major common carrier pipelines. Any significant interruption in the service at Mt. Belvieu or other major market points, or on the common carrier pipelines we use, would adversely affect our ability to obtain propane. Competition from alternative energy sources may cause us to lose propane customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Competition in our propane business from alternative energy sources has been increasing as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities. Propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is a less expensive source of energy than propane. The gradual expansion of natural gas distribution systems and the availability of natural gas in many areas that previously depended upon propane could cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Fuel oil also competes with propane and is generally less expensive than propane. In addition, the successful development and increasing usage of alternative energy sources could adversely affect our operations. Energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has decreased the demand for propane by retail customers. Stricter conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could adversely affect our operations. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS, with respect to our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If we are so treated, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and we would likely pay additional state income taxes as well. Distributions to Unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to Unitholders. Because a tax would then be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the Unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our Common Units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. For example, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Specifically, federal income tax legislation has been considered that would have eliminated partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships and recharacterize certain types of income received from partnerships. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely affected and the costs of any such contest will reduce cash available for distributions to our Unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by us reducing the cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our Unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, Unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from the taxation of their share of our taxable income. In such case, Unitholders would still be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income regardless of the amount, if any, of any cash distributions they receive from us. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected. If Unitholders sell their Common Units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those Common Units. Because distributions in excess of the Unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the Unitholder’s tax basis in their Common Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the Unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a Unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a Unitholder sells units, the Unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in Common Units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to Unitholders who are organizations exempt from federal income tax, may be taxable to them as “unrelated business taxable income.” Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and generally pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat each purchaser of Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a Unitholder owing more tax and may adversely affect the value of the Common Units. The IRS may challenge the manner in which we calculate our Unitholder’s basis adjustment under Section 743(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. If so, because neither we nor a Unitholder can identify the units to which this issue relates once the initial holder has traded them, the IRS may assert adjustments to all Unitholders selling units within the period under audit as if all Unitholders owned such units. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury Regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to this position or other positions we may take could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our Unitholders. It also could affect the gain from a Unitholder’s sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our Unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Moreover, because one of our subsidiaries that is organized as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes owns units in us, a successful IRS challenge could result in this subsidiary having more tax liability than we anticipate and, therefore, reduce the cash available for distribution to our partnership and, in turn, to our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Although publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations, they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. A Unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the Unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the Unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the Unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distributions 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements received by the Unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public Unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our Common Units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our Unitholders and our General Partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our Common Units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain Unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such Unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our Unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of Common Units by our Unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our Unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders which would require us to file two tax returns for one fiscal year, and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such Unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes, and would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our Common Units. In addition to federal income taxes, the Unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions. Further, Unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 