Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below contain forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock and/or contingent value rights. Risks Related to Our Business Nexavar® (sorafenib) tablets is our only product, and we do not have any other product candidates in Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical development. If Nexavar is not commercially successful, we may be unable to identify and promote alternative product candidates and our business would fail. Nexavar is our only product. In June 2003, following an unsuccessful search for new collaboration partners for our therapeutic virus product candidates, including ONYX-015 and ONYX-411, we announced that we were discontinuing the development of all therapeutic virus product candidates, eliminating all employee positions related to these candidates and terminating all related research and manufacturing capabilities. As a result, we do not have internal research and preclinical development capabilities. Our scientific and administrative employees are dedicated to the development and commercialization of Nexavar and managing our relationship with Bayer, but are not actively discovering or developing new product candidates. As a result of the termination of our therapeutic virus program and drug discovery programs, we do not have a clinical development pipeline beyond Nexavar. If Nexavar is not commercially successful, we may be unable to identify and promote alternative product candidates to later stage clinical development, which would cause our business to fail. If our clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective for cancer types other than kidney cancer, we will be unable to broadly commercialize Nexavar as a treatment for cancer, and our business may fail In collaboration with Bayer, we are conducting multiple clinical trials of Nexavar. We have completed Phase 1 single-agent clinical trials of Nexavar. We are currently conducting a number of Phase 1b clinical trials of Nexavar in combination with other anticancer agents. Phase 1 trials are not designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate but rather to test safety; to study pharmacokinetics, or how drug concentrations in the body change over time; to study pharmacodynamics, or how the drug candidate acts on the body over a period of time; and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. With Bayer, we have completed Phase 2 clinical trials of Nexavar in kidney and liver cancer and are conducting Phase 2 clinical trials in non-small cell lung, melanoma and other cancers. Phase 2 trials are designed to explore the efficacy of a product candidate in several different types of cancers and may be randomized and double-blinded to ensure that the results are due to the effects of the drug. In addition, we and Bayer are conducting a number of Phase 3 trials of Nexavar. Phase 3 trials are designed to more rigorously test the efficacy of a product candidate and are normally randomized and double-blinded. In February 2006, we and Bayer initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial of Nexavar in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC. In May 2006, we and Bayer completed enrollment of both a Phase 3 clinical trial of Nexavar in patients with liver cancer and a separate Phase 3 clinical trial of Nexavar in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with malignant melanoma. In December 2006, we and Bayer announced that a Phase III trial administering Nexavar® (sorafenib) or placebo tablets in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with advanced melanoma did not meet its primary endpoint of improving progression-free survival (PFS). The treatment effect was comparable in each arm. Although we have received approvals for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer, the efficacy of Nexavar has not been proven in other types of cancer. While we and Bayer have stopped the Phase 3 liver cancer trial based on the recommendation of the DMC, the data has not yet been filed or reviewed by 15 Table of Contents regulatory authorities, and may not result in marketing approval in this indication. Historically, many companies have failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of pharmaceutical product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials notwithstanding favorable results in Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials. Even though we have obtained fast track designation for Nexavar in metastatic liver and skin cancer, we and Bayer may not obtain marketing approval for the use of Nexavar in these indications from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. In addition, if previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed, we may not proceed with further clinical trials of Nexavar. In our clinical trials, we treat patients who have failed conventional treatments and who are in advanced stages of cancer. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to Nexavar. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to an erroneous conclusion regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective as a treatment for types of cancer other than kidney cancer, which would prevent us from marketing Nexavar as a treatment for those other types of cancer, limiting the potential market for the product, which may cause our business to fail. Even though we have stopped the Phase 3 liver cancer trial, Nexavar may never be approved for use in this indication, or its approval may be significantly delayed. In February 2007, we and Bayer announced that an independent DMC had reviewed the safety and efficacy data from our Phase 3 clinical trial of Nexavar administered as a single agent in patients with advanced liver cancer. The DMC concluded that the trial met its primary endpoint resulting in superior overall survival in those patients receiving Nexavar. Subsequently, we and Bayer made the decision to stop the Phase 3 liver cancer trial early and offer all patients in the trial access to Nexavar, enabling them to “crossover” to Nexavar treatment. While we and Bayer have stopped the Phase 3 liver cancer trial based on the recommendation of the DMC, the data has not yet been filed with or reviewed by regulatory authorities, and may not result in marketing approval in this indication. Based on the results of this trial, and together with Bayer, we intend to file an application with the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval of Nexavar for use in patients with advanced liver cancer. The regulatory authorities may be unsatisfied with the safety and efficacy data submitted in support of these applications, which could result in either non-approval or a requirement of additional clinical trials or further analysis of existing data. In addition to the question of whether Nexavar has demonstrated sufficient efficacy in the treatment of liver cancer, the FDA may have questions about the safety of the drug. For these or other reasons, there is no assurance that Nexavar will be approved for the treatment of advanced liver cancer, or that any such approval, if granted, will occur quickly. There are competing therapies approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, and we expect the number of approved therapies to rapidly increase, which could harm the prospects for Nexavar in this indication. Many companies are marketing and developing products to treat patients with advanced kidney cancer. The market is highly competitive and we expect the competition to increase as additional products are approved to treat advanced kidney cancer. For example, Sutent, a multi-kinase inhibitor marketed by Pfizer, is available in the U.S. and the European Union for treating patients with kidney cancer and Gleevec-resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST. In January 2007, Pfizer reported that European regulators approved Sutent as an initial, or first-line, treatment for advanced kidney cancer patients and granted the product full marketing authorization. Prior to this approval, Sutent had only conditional approval for second-line use after the failure of alternative treatments. In June 2006, results of a randomized Phase 3 trial comparing Sutent to IFN in treatment-naive patients with advanced kidney cancer were reported. The primary endpoint of the study was progression-free survival with a median progression-free survival of 11 months for patients receiving Sutent compared to five months for patients receiving IFN. Moreover, Genentech’s Avastin has been reported to have activity in kidney cancer, and Genentech has indicated that Avastin is now being used off-label for treatment of some kidney cancer patients A Phase 3 randomized trial in treatment-naïve advanced kidney cancer patients is underway comparing Avastin and IFN that may produce superior progression-free survival or overall survival data than Nexavar. In December, Genentech announced that an interim 16 Table of Contents analysis showed that a randomized Phase 3 clinical study of Avastin in combination with IFN in patients with first-line metastatic renal cell carcinoma significantly improved PFS compared to IFN therapy alone. In addition, Wyeth is conducting a Phase 3 study of temsirolimus (CCI-779), an mTOR inhibitor, in patients with advanced kidney cancer. In June 2006, results of a randomized Phase 3 trial comparing temsirolimus to interferon to both agents combined in treatment-naïve, poor-risk advanced kidney cancer patients were reported. The primary endpoint of the study was overall survival. The reported median overall survival was 10.9 months for temsirolimus alone as compared to 7.3 months for interferon. Wyeth filed a new drug application with the FDA for this compound in October 2006. Pfizer also has an earlier stage compound, AG-013736, a multi-kinase inhibitor, which is in clinical development and being evaluated in kidney cancer patients. In April 2005, as a result of a recommendation by us and Bayer, all patients in our ongoing randomized Phase 3 kidney cancer trial who were previously administered placebo in the trial were given the opportunity to receive Nexavar. This action reduced the number of patients in the trial receiving placebo. In November 2005 and June 2006, investigators presented interim analyses on overall survival of patients in this Phase 3 kidney cancer trial. In both cases, the data presented were not sufficient to be considered statistically significant according to the predefined specifications for the interim analyses. The final analysis of overall survival is expected to be presented in 2007. Crossover of patients from placebo to Nexavar is likely to negatively impact our ability to obtain statistically significant overall survival data. Competitors with statistically significant overall survival data could be preferred in the marketplace, impairing our ability to successfully market Nexavar. In December 2006, we announced the results of the Phase 2 clinical trial that compares Nexavar to Interferon (IFN), which is commonly used as a first-line therapy in patients with advanced kidney cancer. Progression-free survival was comparable for patients who received either Nexavar or IFN. Based on 121 progression events, median progression-free survival was 5.6 months and 5.7 months, respectively, for IFN- and Nexavar-treated patients. Products that have shown efficacy as compared to IFN or interleukin-2, or IL-2, or in treatment naïve-patients may be preferred by the medical community. Further, survival may become the single most important element in determining standard of care. We expect that our ability to obtain statistically significant overall survival data has been impaired by the cross over of patients from placebo to Nexavar beginning in April 2005, and we have not demonstrated a measurable difference in Nexavar’s efficacy as compared to IFN or IL-2. The use of any particular therapy may limit the use of a competing therapy with a similar mechanism of action. The FDA approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be used as an initial, or first-line, therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, but some other approvals do not. For example, the European Union approval indicates Nexavar only for advanced kidney cancer patients that have failed prior therapy or whose physicians deem alternate therapies inappropriate. The successful introduction of other new therapies could significantly reduce the potential market for Nexavar in this indication. Decreased demand or price for Nexavar would harm our ability to realize revenue and profits from Nexavar which could cause our stock price to fall. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to manufacture and to further develop and commercialize Nexavar. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent the development and commercialization of Nexavar. Our strategy for manufacturing and further developing and commercializing Nexavar depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense, which would significantly increase our capital requirements and limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from further commercializing Nexavar. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer are conducting multiple clinical trials of Nexavar. We and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Under our agreement with Bayer, we have the opportunity to fund 50 percent of clinical development costs worldwide except in Japan, where Bayer will fund 100 percent of development costs and pay us a royalty on net 17 Table of Contents sales. We are currently funding 50 percent of development costs for Nexavar and depend on Bayer to fund the balance of these costs. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer does not, however, create an obligation for either us or Bayer to fund additional development of Nexavar, or any other product candidate. If a party declines to fund development or ceases to fund development of a product candidate under the collaboration agreement, then that party will be entitled to receive a royalty on any product that is ultimately commercialized, but not to share in profits. Bayer could, upon 60 days notice, elect at any time to terminate its co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer terminates its co-funding of Nexavar development, we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could cause our business to fail. Bayer has been the sponsor for all regulatory filings with the FDA. As a result, we have been dependent on Bayer’s experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Bayer has limited experience in developing drugs for the treatment of cancer. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides for Bayer to advance us creditable milestone-based payments. Bayer advanced us a total of $40.0 million pursuant to this provision. These funds are repayable out of a portion of our future profits and royalties, if any, from any of our products. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer terminates when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or upon the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. Bayer holds the global patent applications related to Nexavar. We currently anticipate that, if issued, the United States patent related to Nexavar will expire in 2022, subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to which and the term of which cannot presently be calculated. We are subject to a number of additional risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: • the amount and timing of resource expenditures can vary because of decisions by Bayer; • possible disagreements as to development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • the right of Bayer to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice and for reasons outside our control; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by Bayer following the development or acquisition by it of competing products; and • possible disagreements with Bayer regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Bayer, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing or commercializing Nexavar, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. Our clinical trials could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all. Although for planning purposes we project the commencement, continuation and completion of ongoing clinical trials for Nexavar, the actual timing of these events may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including actions by Bayer, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria and shortages of available drug supply. We may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar as projected or at all. We rely on Bayer, academic institutions, cooperative oncology organizations and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor most clinical trials involving Nexavar. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. We are directly supervising and monitoring on our own certain Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials of Nexavar for the treatment of malignant melanoma. In 2007, Onyx and Bayer intend to launch a broad, multinational Phase 2 program in advanced breast cancer. The program is being designed and led by an international group of experts in the field of breast cancer and includes multiple randomized Phase 2 trials. Onyx has not conducted a clinical trial that has led to an NDA filing. Consequently, we may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully execute and 18 Table of Contents complete these planned clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar for the target indication. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in our planned clinical trials would prevent us from commercializing Nexavar in indications other than kidney cancer, and thus seriously harm our business. If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, approval for Nexavar could be revoked, sales of Nexavar could decline, and we may be unable to develop Nexavar as a treatment for other types of cancer. The approved package insert for Nexavar for the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer includes the following warnings relating to observed adverse side effects: • Hypertension may occur early in the course of therapy and blood pressure should be monitored weekly during the first six weeks of therapy and treated as needed. • Gastrointestinal perforation has been reported in less than one percent of patients taking Nexavar. • Incidence of bleeding, regardless of causality, was 15 percent for Nexavar vs. 8 percent for placebo and the incidence of treatment-emergent cardiac ischemia/infarction was 2.9 percent for Nexavar vs. 0.4 percent for placebo. • Most common treatment-emergent adverse events with Nexavar were diarrhea, rash/desquamation, fatigue, hand-foot skin reaction, alopecia and nausea. Grade 3/4 adverse events were 38 percent for Nexavar vs. 28 percent for placebo. • Women of child-bearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant and advised against breast-feeding. • In cases of any severe or persistent side effects, temporary treatment interruption, dose modification or permanent discontinuation should be considered. As Nexavar becomes more widely available worldwide, we and Bayer anticipate we will routinely update side effects and adverse events listed on the package insert to reflect current information. For example, subsequent to FDA approval, we and Bayer updated the package insert to include additional information on types of internal bleeding observed and new adverse events reported by physicians using Nexavar, including gastrointestinal perforations, congestive heart failure, keratoacanthomas/squamous cell cancer of the skin, which is a form of a skin lesion, and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome, or RPLS, a rare but reversible neurological phenomenon associated with severe hypertension. If additional adverse side effects emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the Nexavar patient population, the FDA or other international regulatory agencies could modify or revoke approval of Nexavar or we may choose to withdraw it from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain approval of Nexavar in additional indications and foreign regulatory agencies may decline to approve Nexavar for use in any indication. Any of these outcomes would have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar were to suffer harm as a result of their use of Nexavar, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results will likely fluctuate from fiscal quarter to fiscal quarter, and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Sales of Nexavar commenced in late December 2005. Due to a highly competitive environment with existing and emerging products, Nexavar sales will be difficult to predict from period to period. Our operating expenses are largely independent of Nexavar sales in any particular period. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of patient demand for Nexavar, the ability of Bayer’s distribution network to process and ship product on a timely basis, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, investments in sales and marketing efforts to support the sales of Nexavar, Bayer and our investments in the research and development and commercialization of Nexavar, and expenditures we may incur to acquire additional products. In addition, as a result of our adoption of FAS 123(R), we must measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost 19 Table of Contents as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. Any such variance from one period to the next could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results. It is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We have a history of losses, and we expect to continue to incur losses. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $46.8 million, for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $95.2 million and for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $92.7 million. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $438.5 million. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. It is not unusual for patients to be offered access to investigational compounds in late-stage clinical development. Such programs involve substantial costs. We expect to incur significant and increasing operating losses over the next several years as we continue our clinical trial activities and, with Bayer, establish commercial infrastructure in Europe and other parts of the world. We expect our operating losses to increase with our co-funding of ongoing Nexavar clinical and commercial activities under our collaboration agreement with Bayer. We and Bayer only began to generate revenues from the sale of Nexavar in December 2005, and we must repay the milestone-based advances we received from Bayer from any future profits and royalties. We have made significant expenditures towards the development and commercialization of Nexavar, and may never realize sufficient product sales to offset these expenditures. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon success by us and Bayer in completing development of Nexavar, obtaining required regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing the approved product. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. Drug candidates under development are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign regulation. We have received regulatory approval only for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States and a number of foreign markets. We expect to rely on Bayer to manage communications with regulatory agencies, including filing new drug applications and generally directing the regulatory approval process for Nexavar. We and Bayer may not obtain necessary additional approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we will experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar in particular indications or countries. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may approve only limited label information for the product. The label information describes the indications and methods of use for which the product is authorized, and if overly restrictive, may limit our and Bayer’s ability to successfully market any approved product. If we have disagreements as to ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals, and the FDA refuses to recognize us as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing products. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Additional or more rigorous governmental regulations may be promulgated that could delay regulatory approval of Nexavar. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the successful commercialization of Nexavar; • impose costly procedures on us; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. 20 Table of Contents Even after Nexavar and any other products we may develop are marketed, the products and their manufacturers are subject to continual review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with Nexavar or manufacturing and production by Bayer or other third parties may result in restrictions on Nexavar, including withdrawal of Nexavar from the market. In addition, problems or failures with the products of others, before or after regulatory approval, including our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for Nexavar. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. While Nexavar has received approvals for sale in several countries outside of the United States, it has not received pricing approval in all of these foreign countries, and may not receive marketing approval in additional countries. In July 2005, we and Bayer filed for approval of Nexavar based on the progression-free survival data. The FDA granted full approval in December 2005 for patients with advanced kidney cancer. In March 2006, the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products approved Nexavar as a treatment for patients with advanced kidney cancer, after nepherectomy and prior palliative or adjuvant therapy with cytokines. In April 2006 the Mexican Ministry of Health granted approval of Nexavar as a treatment for advanced kidney cancer. In July 2006, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Nexavar for the treatment of patients with advanced kidney cancer who have failed prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered unsuitable for such therapy. Nexavar has also received approvals in more than 50 territories worldwide. Other foreign regulatory authorities may not, however, be satisfied with the safety and efficacy data submitted in support of the foreign applications, which could result in non-approval, a requirement of additional clinical trials, further analysis of existing data or a restricted use of Nexavar. Lack of marketing approval in a particular country would prevent us from selling Nexavar in that country, which could harm our business. In addition, we and Bayer will be required to negotiate the price of Nexavar with European governmental authorities in order for Nexavar to be eligible for government reimbursement. In many European countries, patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursable by their governments. European price negotiations could delay commercialization in a particular country by twelve months or more. Nexavar was approved by the FDA for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer on the basis of the progression-free survival endpoint. The final analysis of overall survival is expected to be presented later in the year. We expect that our ability to obtain statistically significant overall survival data will be negatively impacted by our April 2005 decision to allow patients that had been receiving placebo to elect to receive Nexavar. Regulatory authorities may have concerns or require further analysis of the manner in which tumor progression was determined. It is possible that in the absence of statistically significant overall survival data, Nexavar will not receive marketing approval in some countries, or will receive more limited approval than that granted by the FDA. For example, neither the European Union nor the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products approved Nexavar as an initial or first-line therapy, and it is possible that other foreign regulatory agencies will take a similar approach. In addition to the question of whether Nexavar has demonstrated sufficient efficacy in the treatment of kidney cancer, regulatory authorities may have questions about the safety of the drug. For example, there were instances of greater adverse events in the treatment arm relative to the placebo arm of the Phase 3 trial, and physicians have reported some incidents of additional adverse events in patients receiving Nexavar. In addition, as an element of the foreign approval process, the applicable regulatory authority must be satisfied with the processes and facilities for drug manufacture, which includes a physical inspection of those facilities. Any conclusion that there are shortcomings in the processes, facilities, or quality control procedures related to manufacture of the drug could result in a significant delay in foreign approval. For these or other reasons, there is no assurance that Nexavar will receive any additional foreign approvals on the basis of the current application without amendment, if it is approved at all. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market Nexavar to compete with other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many other companies are actively seeking to develop products that have disease targets similar to those we are pursuing. Some of these competitive product candidates are in clinical trials, and others are approved. Competitors that target the 21 Table of Contents same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates at various stages of clinical development include Pfizer, Wyeth, Novartis International AG, Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Genentech, Inc. among others. A number of companies have agents targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor, or VEGF; VEGF receptors; Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF; EGF receptors; and other enzymes. These agents include antibodies and small molecules. OSI Pharmaceuticals with Tarcevatm, a small molecule inhibitor of the EGF receptor has been approved in the United States for treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC and pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine. Companies working on developing antibody approaches include Amgen and ImClone Systems, Inc. ImClone has developed Erbitux, which is an antibody targeting the EGF receptor. Erbitux has been approved in the United States and the European Union for treatment of colorectal cancer, as well as in the United States for the treatment of most types of head and neck cancer. Genentech has developed Avastintm, an antibody targeting VEGF, which has received approvals in the United States and the European Union for treatment of colorectal cancer and NSCLC and is in clinical development for kidney cancer, among other indications. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing product candidates before we do. If we receive FDA approval and commence commercial product sales, we will compete against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. Further, we face numerous competitors working on product candidates to treat each of the diseases for which we are seeking to develop therapeutic products. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, will compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. We may also face competition from other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease and other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may succeed with technologies or products that are more effective than ours. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets and as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. We have made significant expenditures towards the development of Nexavar and the establishment of a commercialization infrastructure. If Nexavar cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, we may be unable to realize revenue from Nexavar sufficient to offset our expenditures towards its development and commercialization, and our business will suffer. We will need substantial additional funds, and our future access to capital is uncertain. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming clinical trials necessary to develop Nexavar for additional indications, pursue regulatory approval and commercialize this product in Europe and the rest of the world. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the size and complexity of our Nexavar program; 22 Table of Contents • decisions made by Bayer and Onyx to alter the size, scope and schedule of clinical development; • repayment of our of milestone-based advances; • progress with clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the cost involved in enforcing patent claims against third parties and defending claims by third parties (both of which are shared with Bayer); • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; • competing technological and market developments; and • global product commercialization activities. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses that are unfavorable to us. In September 2006, in connection with our committed equity financing facility, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., or Azimuth. The committed equity financing facility entitles us to sell and obligates Azimuth to purchase, from time to time over a period of two years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $150.0 million, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Capital will not be available to us under the committed equity financing facility if our stock price is below $8.00 per share or if we are unable to meet other conditions specified in the stock purchase agreement. In addition, when we draw down under the committed equity financing facility, we will sell shares to Azimuth at a discount of up to 5.05 percent from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the committed equity financing facility when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our share price was higher. We believe that our existing capital resources and interest thereon will be sufficient to fund our current development plans into 2009. However, if we change our development plans or if Nexavar is not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. Moreover, once a development program has been initiated, under our collaboration with Bayer we may have limited ability to control the expenditures made under that program, which we share equally with Bayer. In addition, we anticipate that our co-development costs for the Nexavar program may increase over the next several years as we continue our share of funding the clinical development program and prepare for the potential product launches of Nexavar throughout the world. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue the co-funding of the Nexavar program in future periods through and beyond 2009. We may have to curtail our funding of Nexavar if we cannot raise sufficient capital. If we do not continue to co-fund the further development of Nexavar, we will receive a royalty on future sales of products, instead of a share of profits. We are dependent on the efforts of Bayer to market and promote Nexavar in countries outside the United States where Nexavar has received approval. Under our collaboration and co-promotion agreements with Bayer, we and Bayer are co-promoting Nexavar in the United States. If we continue to co-promote Nexavar, and continue to co-fund development in the United States, we will share equally in profits or losses, if any, in the United States. We do not, however, have the right to co-promote Nexavar in any country outside the United States, and will be dependent solely on Bayer to promote Nexavar in foreign countries where Nexavar is approved. In all foreign countries, except Japan, Bayer would first receive a portion of the product revenues to repay Bayer for its foreign commercialization infrastructure, before determining our share of profits and losses. In Japan, we would receive a royalty on any sales of Nexavar. 23 Table of Contents We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar in foreign countries where Nexavar is approved. Bayer may not have sufficient experience to promote oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. If Bayer fails to adequately promote Nexavar in foreign countries, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. If this were to happen, sales of Nexavar in any foreign countries where Nexavar is approved may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business. Similarly, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of regulatory approval. Since we share in the profits and losses arising from sales of Nexavar outside of the United States, rather than receiving a royalty (except in Japan), we are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer’s commercial decisions related to Nexavar as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. If Bayer’s business strategy changes, it may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. Bayer may change its business strategy. Bayer recently completed a public takeover of Schering AG and the integration of the two companies will consume management resources at Bayer that may negatively impact our collaboration. Decisions by Bayer to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the oncology field, or to add competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentive to promote Nexavar. A change in Bayer’s business strategy may adversely affect activities under its collaboration agreement with us, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. We do not have manufacturing expertise or capabilities and are dependent on Bayer to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could result in lost sales and the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval. Under our collaboration agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar for clinical trials and to support our commercial requirements. However, should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so for us. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar or any future product candidates on our own and would require substantial funds to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties to manufacture our product candidates and products. These parties may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, including problems involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortage of qualified personnel. These third parties may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required by us to successfully market our products. These third parties may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. Failure by these third parties could impair our ability to meet the market demand for Nexavar, and could delay our ongoing clinical trials and our applications for regulatory approval. If these third parties do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses to pay for the manufacture of products or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. If the specialty pharmacies and distributors that we and Bayer rely upon to sell our products fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Nexavar or complaints about Nexavar; • not effectively sell or support Nexavar; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support Nexavar; 24 Table of Contents • not devote the resources necessary to sell Nexavar in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and • cease operations. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and profits, which would harm our business. If we lose our key employees and consultants or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success will depend in large part on the continued services of our management personnel, including Hollings C. Renton, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Laura A. Brege, our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer, Edward F. Kenney, our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and Henry J. Fuchs, our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer as well as each of our other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse impact on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. In 2003, we restructured our operations to reflect an increased priority on the development of Nexavar and discontinued our therapeutic virus program. As a result of the restructuring, we eliminated our entire scientific team associated with the therapeutic virus program. Our remaining scientific and administrative employees are engaged in managing our collaboration with Bayer to develop Nexavar, but are not actively involved in new product candidate discovery. If we resume our research and development of other product candidates, we will need to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. If we cannot hire these individuals in a timely fashion, we will be unable to engage in new product candidate discovery activities. The market may not accept our products and pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. Nexavar or any future product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community or the market may not be as large as forecasted. One factor that may affect market acceptance of Nexavar or any future products we may develop is the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for patients from third-party healthcare payors, such as government and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Nexavar. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Act, including Medicare Part D, or changes in private third-party payers’ policies towards reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our products costs to physicians. In addition, the market for Nexavar may be limited by third-party payors who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If Nexavar is not on the approved lists, our sales may suffer. Nexavar’s success in Europe will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because in many European countries patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. For example, in Europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. 25 Table of Contents A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products including the following: • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target population; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If Nexavar or any future product candidates that we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, we may not realize sufficient revenues from product sales, which may cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, we depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • license technology rights from others; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. In the case of Nexavar, the global patent applications related to this product candidate are held by Bayer, but licensed to us in conjunction with our collaboration agreement with Bayer. While an application is pending, a United States patent has not been issued related to Nexavar. We currently anticipate that, if issued, the United States patent related to Nexavar will expire in 2022, subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to which and the term of which cannot presently be calculated. Patent applications for Nexavar are also pending throughout the world. As of December 31, 2006, we owned or had licensed rights to 58 United States patents and 37 United States patent applications and, generally, foreign counterparts of these filings. Most of these patents or patent applications cover protein targets used to identify product candidates during the research phase of our collaborative agreements with Warner-Lambert Company or Bayer, or aspects of our now discontinued virus program. Additionally, we have corresponding patents or patent applications pending or granted in certain foreign jurisdictions. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar to ours. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may not acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ 26 Table of Contents patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. These activities, and especially patent litigation, are costly. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals, entities or consultants to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. The nature of the limitations depends on various factors, including the type of research being conducted, the ownership of the data and information and the nature of the individual, entity or consultant. In most cases, these individuals, entities or consultants are, at the least, precluded from publicly disclosing our confidential information and are only allowed to disclose other data or information generated during the course of the research after we have been afforded an opportunity to consider whether patent and/or other proprietary protection should be sought. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of drugs or are otherwise found in violation of federal and state regulations in the United States or elsewhere. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may prescribe Nexavar for the treatment of cancers other than advanced kidney cancer, although neither we nor Bayer are permitted to promote Nexavar for the treatment of any indication other than kidney cancer, and the FDA and other regulatory agencies have not approved the use of Nexavar for any other indication. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies may not promote drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, prior to approval of Nexavar for use in any indications other than advanced kidney cancer, we may not promote Nexavar for these indications. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sale of Nexavar and its ongoing use in clinical trials exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar. We believe that we have obtained reasonably adequate product liability insurance coverage that includes the commercial sale of Nexavar and our clinical trials. However, the cost of insurance coverage is rising. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance 27 Table of Contents coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. If we do not receive timely and accurate financial and market information from Bayer regarding the development and sale of Nexavar, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations. As a result of our arrangements with Bayer, we are highly dependent on Bayer for timely and accurate information regarding the costs incurred in developing and selling Nexavar, and any revenues realized from its sale, in order to accurately report our results of operations. If we do not receive timely and accurate information, or underestimate activity levels associated with the co-promotion and development of Nexavar at a given point in time, we could record significant additional expense in future periods, and may be required to restate our results for prior periods. Such inaccuracies or restatements could cause a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or lead to claims against us, resulting in a decrease in the trading price of shares of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. For example, during the period beginning January 1, 2003 and ending December 31, 2006, the closing sales price for one share of our common stock reached a high of $58.75 and a low of $4.65. Factors affecting our stock price include: • reported sales of Nexavar by Bayer; • interim or final results of, or speculation about, clinical trials from Nexavar; • decisions by regulatory agencies; • changes in the regulatory approval requirements; • ability to accrue patients into clinical trials; • success or failure in, or speculation about, obtaining regulatory approval by us or our competitors; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • developments in our relationship with Bayer; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products; • published reports by securities analysts; • statements of governmental officials; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies; • sales of our common stock by existing holders, or sales of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants; and 28 Table of Contents • sales by us of our common stock, including sales under our committed equity financing facility arrangement with Azimuth. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have often brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. Following our announcement in October 2004 of Phase 2 clinical trial data in patients with advanced kidney cancer, our stock price declined significantly. In December 2006, following our announcement that a Phase 3 trial administering Nexavar or placebo tablets in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with advanced melanoma did not meet its primary endpoint, our stock price declined significantly. We may in the future be the target of securities class action litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. Our executive officers, directors and five-percent stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 25 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Bayer, a collaborative party, has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to have its nominee elected to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and collaborator may be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and determine all corporate actions. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Bayer may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides that if Onyx is acquired by another entity by reason of merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and Bayer does not consent to the transaction, then for 60 days following the transaction, Bayer may elect to terminate Onyx’s co-development and co-promotion rights under the collaboration agreement. If Bayer were to exercise this right, Bayer would gain exclusive development and marketing rights to the product candidates developed under the collaboration agreement, including Nexavar. If this happened, Onyx, or the successor to Onyx, would receive a royalty based on any sales of Nexavar and other collaboration products, rather than a share of any profits. In this case, Onyx or its successor would be permitted to continue co-funding development, and the royalty rate would be adjusted to reflect this continued risk-sharing by Onyx or its successor. These provisions of our collaboration agreement with Bayer may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring Onyx. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in a merger or sale of more than ten percent of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock; 29 Table of Contents • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control of us and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: • our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms; • the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; • all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or ten percent or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; and • no cumulative voting. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even at stock prices higher than the then current stock price. We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer’s employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control of Onyx. These change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations. There may be new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an effect on our future financial position and results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or FAS, No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” The revision is referred to as “FAS 123(R) — Share-Based Payment”, which supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and requires companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock issued under our employee stock plans. We adopted FAS 123(R) using the modified prospective basis on January 1, 2006. The adoption of FAS 123(R) had a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our net loss per share. For example, as a result of our adoption of FAS 123(R), for the year ended December 31, 2006, our net loss increased by $14.0 million, or $0.33 per share, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 net loss. We expect that our future results will continue to be adversely affected by FAS 123(R) and that the FASB could issue new accounting pronouncements that could affect our future financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 30 Table of Contents 