Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below contain forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Nexavar® is our only approved product. If Nexavar fails and we are unable to develop and commercialize alternative product candidates our business would fail. Nexavar generated all of our commercial revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, which we rely on to fund our operations. Unless we can successfully commercialize one of our other product candidates, we will continue to rely on Nexavar to generate substantially all of our revenues and fund our operations. All of our other product candidates are still development stage and we may never obtain approval of or earn revenues from any of our product candidates. If for any reason we became unable to continue selling or further developing Nexavar, our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. Nexavar faces significant competition. If Nexavar is unable to successfully compete against existing and future therapies, our business would be harmed. There are many existing approaches used in the treatment of unresectable liver cancer including alcohol injection, radiofrequency ablation, chemoembolization, cryoablation and radiation therapy. While Nexavar is the first systemic therapy to demonstrate a survival benefit for patients with unresectable liver cancer, several other therapies are in development, including Pfizer’s sunitinib, a multiple kinase inhibitor and Bristol-Myers Squibb’s brivanib, a Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 2 (VEGFR 2) inhibitor. If Nexavar is unable to compete or be combined successfully with existing approaches or if new therapies are developed for unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. There are several competing therapies approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, including Sutent, a multiple kinase inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Pfizer; Torisel, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States, the European Union and other countries by Wyeth; Avastin, an angiogenesis inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer in the United States and the European Union and marketed by Genentech, a member of the Roche Group; Afinitor, an mTOR inhibitor marketed in the United States and the European Union by Novartis; and GlaxoSmithKline’s Votrient, a multiple kinase inhibitor recently approved by the FDA. Nexavar’s U.S. market share in advanced kidney cancer has declined following the introduction of these products into the market. We expect competition to increase as additional products are approved to treat advanced kidney cancer. The successful introduction of other new therapies to treat advanced kidney cancer could significantly reduce the potential market for Nexavar in this indication. Competitors that target the same tumor types as our Nexavar program and that have commercial products or product candidates at various stages of clinical development include Pfizer, Roche, Wyeth, Novartis International AG, Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and several others. A number of companies have agents such as small molecules or antibodies targeting VEGF, VEGF receptors, Epidermal Growth Factor, or EGF, EGF receptors, and other enzymes. In addition, many other pharmaceutical companies are developing novel cancer therapies that, if successful, would also provide competition for Nexavar. A demonstrated survival benefit is often an important element in determining standard of care in oncology. We did not demonstrate a statistically significant overall survival benefit for patients treated with Nexavar in our Phase 3 kidney cancer trial, which we believe was due in part to the crossover of patients from placebo to Nexavar during the conduct of our pivotal clinical trial. Competitors with statistically significant overall survival data could be 21 preferred in the marketplace. The FDA approval of Nexavar permits Nexavar to be marketed as an initial, or first-line, therapy and subsequent lines of therapy for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, but some other approvals do not. For example, the European Union approval indicates Nexavar only for advanced kidney cancer patients that have failed prior cytokine therapy or whose physicians deem alternate therapies inappropriate. We may be unable to compete effectively against competitive products with broader or different marketing authorizations in one or more countries. Adoption of Nexavar in certain territories for the treatment of patients with unresectable liver cancer may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including the geographic distribution of the patient population, the current treatment paradigm for unresectable liver cancer patients, the underlying liver disease present in most liver cancer patients and limited reimbursement. If Nexavar is not broadly adopted for the treatment of unresectable liver cancer, our business would be harmed. The rate of adoption of Nexavar for unresectable liver cancer and the ultimate market size will be dependent on several factors including educating treating physicians on the appropriate use of Nexavar and the management of patients who are receiving Nexavar. This may be difficult as liver cancer patients typically have underlying liver disease and other comorbidities and can be treated by a variety of medical specialists. In addition, screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by region. Further, liver cancer is common in many regions in the developing world where the healthcare systems are limited and reimbursement for Nexavar is limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption. If we are unable to change the treatment paradigms for this disease, we may be unable to successfully achieve the market potential of Nexavar in this indication, which could harm our business. Outside the United States and European Union, some regulatory authorities have not completed their review of our submissions for the use of Nexavar for unresectable liver cancer, including regulatory authorities in Taiwan. These submissions may not result in marketing approval by these authorities in this indication. In addition, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for this indication may be obtained. We may not receive or maintain pricing approvals at favorable levels or at all, which could harm our ability to broadly market Nexavar. If our ongoing and planned clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective or we are unable to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to expand the commercial market for Nexavar and our business may fail. Nexavar has not been approved in any indications other than unresectable liver cancer and advanced kidney cancer. We and Bayer are currently conducting a number of clinical trials of Nexavar alone or in combination with other therapies or anticancer agents in liver, kidney, non-small cell lung, thyroid, breast, colorectal, ovarian and other cancers including a number of Phase 3 clinical trials. Many companies have failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of pharmaceutical product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials notwithstanding favorable results in Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials. We may experience similar failure. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that Nexavar is safe and effective, and Nexavar may not gain additional regulatory approval, which would limit the potential market for the product causing our business to fail. Success in one or even several cancer types does not indicate that Nexavar would be approved or have successful clinical trials in other cancer types. Bayer and Onyx have conducted Phase 3 trials in melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, that were not successful. In addition, in the NSCLC Phase 3 trial, higher mortality was observed in the subset of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung treated with Nexavar and carboplatin and paclitaxel than in the subset of patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone. Based on this observation, further enrollment of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung was suspended from other NSCLC trials sponsored by us. Other cancer types with a histology similar to squamous cell carcinoma of the lung may yield a similar adverse treatment outcome. If so, patients having this histology may be excluded from ongoing and future clinical trials, which could potentially delay clinical trial enrollment and would reduce the number of patients that could potentially receive Nexavar. 22 If serious adverse side effects are associated with Nexavar, approval for Nexavar could be revoked, sales of Nexavar could decline, and we may be unable to develop Nexavar as a treatment for other types of cancer. The FDA-approved package insert for Nexavar includes several warnings relating to observed adverse reactions. With continued commercial use of Nexavar and additional clinical trials of Nexavar, we and Bayer have updated and expect to continue to update adverse reactions listed in the package insert to reflect current information. If additional adverse reactions emerge, or a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects is observed in the Nexavar patient population, the FDA or other international regulatory agencies could modify or revoke approval of Nexavar or we may choose to withdraw it from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain approval of Nexavar in additional indications and foreign regulatory agencies may decline to approve Nexavar for use in any indication. In addition, if patients receiving Nexavar were to suffer harm as a result of their use of Nexavar, these patients or their representatives may bring claims against us. These claims, or the mere threat of these claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If previously unforeseen and unacceptable side effects are observed, we may not proceed with further clinical trials of Nexavar in that cancer type, stage of disease or combination. In our clinical trials, we may treat patients with Nexavar as a single agent or in combination with other therapies, who have failed conventional treatments and who are in advanced stages of cancer. During the course of treatment, these patients may die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons unrelated to Nexavar. These adverse effects may impact the interpretation of clinical trial results, which could lead to adverse conclusions regarding the toxicity or efficacy of Nexavar. Specialty pharmacies and distributors that we and Bayer rely upon to sell Nexavar may fail to perform. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Nexavar or complaints about Nexavar; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support Nexavar; • not devote the resources necessary to sell Nexavar in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and/or • cease operations. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Bayer to further develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Bayer’s ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize Nexavar. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing Nexavar depends in large part upon our relationship with Bayer. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Bayer, we would need to undertake development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense. This would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, may limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing Nexavar. Disputes with Bayer may delay or prevent us from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing Nexavar, and could lead to additional litigation or arbitration against Bayer, which could be time consuming and expensive. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Bayer, including: • decisions by Bayer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of Nexavar; • possible disagreements as to development plans, clinical trials, regulatory marketing or sales; 23 • our inability to co-promote Nexavar in any country outside the United States, which makes us solely dependent on Bayer to promote Nexavar in foreign countries; • Bayer’s right to terminate the collaboration agreement us on limited notice and for reasons outside our control; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • the development or acquisition by Bayer of competing products, including fluoro-sorafenib; • adverse regulatory or legal action against Bayer resulting from failure to meet healthcare industry compliance requirements in the promotion and sale of Nexavar, including federal and state reporting requirements; • changes in key management personnel at Bayer, including Bayer’s representatives on the collaboration’s executive team; and • disagreements with Bayer regarding interpretation or enforcement of the collaboration agreement. We have limited ability to direct Bayer in its promotion of Nexavar in foreign countries and we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Bayer. Bayer may not have sufficient expertise to promote oncology products in foreign countries and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. In addition, Bayer may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure for Nexavar outside the United States that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the Nexavar sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of potential regulatory approvals. Because we share in the profits and losses arising from sales of Nexavar outside of the United States, (except in Japan), we are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Bayer’s commercial decisions related to Nexavar as well as the extent to which Bayer succeeds in the execution of its strategy. Bayer’s development of fluoro-sorafenib may affect Bayer’s incentives to develop and commercialize Nexavar that are different from our own. Our litigation against Bayer regarding the ownership of flouro-sorafenib, which is a variant of sorafenib, may be time consuming and expensive, and may be a distraction to our management. If it is ultimately determined that Onyx has no rights to fluoro-sorafenib and if Bayer obtains approval for this product, it could compete with and cannibalize sales of Nexavar, thereby harming our business. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we and Bayer must agree on the development plan for Nexavar. If we and Bayer cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed or halted. Further, if we or Bayer cease funding development of Nexavar under the collaboration agreement, then that party will be entitled to receive a royalty, but not to share in profits. Bayer could, upon 60 days notice, elect at any time to terminate its co-funding of the development of Nexavar. If Bayer terminates its co-funding of Nexavar development, we may be unable to fund the development costs on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator. In addition, Bayer has the right, which it is not currently exercising, to nominate a member to our board of directors as long as we continue to collaborate on the development of a compound. Because of these rights, ownership and voting arrangements, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and collaborator may not be able to effectively control the election of all members of the board of directors and determine all corporate actions. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer will terminate when patents expire that were issued in connection with product candidates discovered under that agreement, or at the time when neither we nor Bayer are entitled to profit sharing under that agreement, whichever is later. The worldwide patents and patent applications covering Nexavar are owned by Bayer and certain Nexavar patents are licensed to us through our collaboration agreement. We have no control over the filing, strategy, or prosecution of the Nexavar patent applications. Nexavar may face challenges and competition from generic products. As of December 20, 2009, generic manufacturers were permitted to file ANDAs in the U.S. seeking FDA authorization to manufacture and market generic versions of Nexavar, together with Paragraph IV certifications that challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents. If Bayer or we fail to timely file a lawsuit against any ANDA filer, that ANDA filer may not be subject to an FDA stay, and upon approval of the ANDA, the ANDA filer may elect to launch a generic version of Nexavar, thereby harming our business. Even if a lawsuit is 24 timely filed, Bayer and we may be unable to successfully enforce and defend the Nexavar patents and we may face generic competition prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents in 2020. Similarly, outside the United States, generic companies or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of the Nexavar patents, requiring Bayer and us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Generic companies may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of Nexavar. Bayer may be unsuccessful in defending or enforcing the Nexavar patents in one or more countries and could face generic completion prior to expiration of the Nexavar patents, which would harm our business. The market may not accept our products and we may be subject to pharmaceutical pricing and third-party reimbursement pressures. Nexavar or our product candidates that may be approved may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and/or the medical community or the market may not be as large as forecasted. A significant factor that affects market acceptance of Nexavar or future products is the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for patients from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, especially in global markets, and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Nexavar or future products. In addition, the market for our products may be limited by third-party payers who establish lists of approved products and do not provide reimbursement for products not listed. If our products are not on the approved lists in one or more countries, our sales may suffer. Proposed healthcare reform or changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Act in the United States, including Medicare Part D, or changes in private third-party payers’ policies towards reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of Nexavar and our future products and increase the amounts that patients have to pay themselves. Non-government organizations can influence the use of Nexavar and reimbursement decisions for Nexavar in the United States and elsewhere. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, a not-for-profit alliance of cancer centers, has issued guidelines for the use of Nexavar in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. These guidelines may affect treating physicians’ use of Nexavar. Nexavar’s success in Europe and other regions will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. For example, in Europe and in many other international markets, most patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect sales and profitability of Nexavar. In addition, in Europe and in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. In the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, China leads in Nexavar sales, however, reimbursement typically requires multiple steps. Also, in December 2009, health authorities in China published a new National Reimbursement Drug List, or NRDL, which lists medicines that are expected to be sold at government-controlled prices. There were no targeted oncology drugs, including Nexavar, on the list, however, we believe that the Ministry of Human Resource and Social Security, the group responsible for developing the NDRL, plans to establish a mechanism and framework for reimbursement of high-value innovative products, such as targeted oncology drugs. Reimbursement policies are subject to change due to economic, political or competitive factors. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the following: • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • treatment guidelines issued by government and non-government agencies; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target patient population; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; 25 • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies, including generic versions of our products, or generic versions of innovative products that compete with our products; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If Nexavar or any of our future products do not achieve market acceptance, we may not realize sufficient revenues from product sales, which may cause our stock price to decline. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. We are seeking to develop and market oncology products that face significant competition from other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many other companies are actively seeking to develop products that have disease targets similar to those we are pursuing, or products designed to treat the same diseases we are seeking to treat. Some of these competitive product candidates are in clinical trials and others are approved; some have long histories of safe and effective use. In addition, following the expiration or invalidation of applicable patents, generic drug manufacturers may gain regulatory authorization to manufacture and sell generic versions of our competitors’ approved products, in which case our approved products would potentially compete with generic products. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and research and development staffs. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • discovering and patenting products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • manufacturing products; and • marketing and obtaining reimbursement for products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving regulatory approval in the U.S. or other countries, or commercializing product candidates before, or more successfully than, we do. We will compete with companies with greater preclinical, marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, we have not developed or marketed products for any hematological cancer, including multiple myeloma, and may be at a disadvantage to our competitors. Carfilzomib, if approved for multiple myeloma, would compete directly with products marketed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Celgene Corporation and potentially against agents currently in development for treatment of this disease by Merck & Co. Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Nereus Pharmaceuticals and Cephalon, Inc. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to proprietary technology We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets and as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. If we are not successful at integrating the Proteolix organization with ours, we may not be able to realize benefits from our acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Proteolix acquisition will depend in part on the successful integration of Onyx’s and Proteolix’s technical and business operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Integration 26 requires coordination of personnel and the integration of systems, applications, policies, procedures, business processes and operations, all of which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of integration include, among others: • consolidating research and development operations; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures, including integrating and managing information technology and other support systems and processes; • preserving relationships with third parties, such as regulatory agencies, clinical investigators, key opinion leaders, clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, licensors and suppliers; • appropriately identifying and managing the liabilities of the combined company; and • difficulty managing new risks associated with facilities, including environmental risks and compliance with laws regulating laboratories. We have limited experience managing discovery research and preclinical activities or operating research laboratories, and may be unsuccessful at doing so or at motivating and retaining key individuals responsible for these activities. We cannot assure stockholders that we will receive any benefits of this or any other merger or acquisition, or that any of the difficulties described above will not adversely affect the combined company. The integration process may be difficult and unpredictable because of possible conflicts and differing opinions on business, scientific and regulatory matters. We expect these integration efforts to place a significant burden on our management and internal resources, which could result in delays in clinical trial and product development programs and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our clinical trials could take longer to complete than we project or may not be completed at all, and; we may never obtain regulatory approval for carfilzomib or any other future product candidate. The timing of initiation and completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays resulting from various causes, including actions by Bayer, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria and shortages of available drug supply. We may face difficulties transitioning carfilzomib clinical trials to our management and difficulties developing relationships with carfilzomib development partners, including clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, key opinion leaders and clinical investigators. We may not complete clinical trials involving Nexavar, carfilzomib or any of our other product candidates as projected or at all. We may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully manage the execution and completion of ongoing or future clinical trials in a way that leads to approval of Nexavar, carfilzomib or other product candidates for their target indications. In addition, we rely on Bayer, academic institutions, cooperative oncology organizations and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor the majority of clinical trials involving Nexavar. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in our planned clinical trials may prevent us from commercializing Nexavar in indications other than kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. Carfilzomib is in mid-stage clinical stage and ONX 0801 is in the Phase 1 clinical stage. Successful development of these compounds and our other product candidates is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Compounds that appear promising in research or development, including Phase 2 clinical trials, may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for a variety of reasons including: • nonclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; 27 • regulatory approvals may not be received, or may be delayed due to factors such as slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or preparation of an IND, discussions with regulatory authorities, requests from regulatory authorities for additional preclinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues; • difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical; • proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so; and • contractual rights of our collaborators or others may prevent our product from being developed or commercialized or may increase the cost of doing so. We do not have the manufacturing expertise or capabilities for any current and future products and are dependent on others to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could result in lost sales and the delay of clinical trials or regulatory approval. Under our collaboration agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the manufacturing responsibility to supply Nexavar for clinical trials and for commercialization. Should Bayer give up its right to co-develop Nexavar, we would have to manufacture Nexavar, or contract with another third party to do so for us. Under our agreement with BTG, we are responsible for all product development and commercialization activities of ONX 0801. Under our agreement with S*BIO, if we exercise our options and if S*BIO fails to supply us inventory through manufacturing, or if other specified events occur, we have co-exclusive rights (with S*BIO) to make and have made ONX 0803 and ONX 0805 for use and sale in the United States, Canada and Europe. In addition, we have manufacturing responsibility for carfilzomib, ONX 0912 and ONX 0914. We lack the resources, experience and capabilities to manufacture Nexavar or any other product candidate on our own and would require substantial funds and time to establish these capabilities. Consequently, we are, and expect to remain, dependent on third parties for manufacturing. These parties may encounter difficulties in production scale-up, production yields, control and quality assurance, regulatory status or shortage of qualified personnel. They may not perform as agreed or may not continue to manufacture our products for the time required to test or market our products. They may fail to deliver the required quantities of our products or product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. In addition, marketed drugs and their contract manufacturing organizations are subject to continual review, including review and approval of their manufacturing facilities. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine may result in restrictions on its permissible uses, or on the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the medicine from the market. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities may also implement additional new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements for the manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. If we or our third party manufacturers are unable to comply or if we fail to maintain regulatory approval, this will impair our ability to meet the market demand for our approved drugs, delay ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates or delay our drug applications for regulatory approval. If these third parties do not adequately perform, we may be forced to incur additional expenses to pay for the manufacture of products or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we could be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. If we lose our key employees or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of key employees may have an adverse impact on our business unless or until we hire a suitably qualified replacement. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time and without notice. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, 28 universities and other research institutions. In order to succeed in our research and development efforts, we will need to continue to hire individuals with the appropriate scientific skills. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of future business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. In addition to our agreements with BTG and S*BIO and our acquisition of Proteolix, we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current business or enter into a new product area. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management’s attention and other company resources. Any of the following risks associated with future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, or sell Nexavar, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: • difficulty in combining the products, operations or workforce, including key personnel, of any acquired business with our business; • difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; • disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company that we invest in or acquire; • difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • disruption of or delays in ongoing research, clinical trials and development efforts; • diversion of capital and other resources; • assumption of liabilities; • diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; • difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; and • impairment of relationships with our or the acquired businesses’ employees and other third parties, such as clinical research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, licensors, suppliers, or the loss of such relationships as a result of our acquisition or investment. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. If we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash and investment balances would be reduced which could negatively impact our liquidity, the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. However, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. The significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The sale of Nexavar and the use of it and other products in clinical trials and commercial use expose us to product liability claims. In the United States, FDA approval of a drug may not offer protection from liability claims under state law (i.e., federal preemption defense), the tort duties for which may vary state to state. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Nexavar and/or future products. 29 We believe that we have obtained reasonably adequate product liability insurance coverage that includes the commercial sale of Nexavar and clinical trials of Nexavar and our other product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise should a future product candidate receive marketing approval. Whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in significant losses. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • distraction of management; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. We or Bayer may not be able to protect or enforce our or their intellectual property and we may not be able to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We can protect our technology from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents, effectively maintained as trade secrets, or otherwise protected as confidential information or know-how. We depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • license technology rights from others; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, particularly generic drug manufacturers. Patents and patent applications covering Nexavar are owned by Bayer. Those Nexavar patents that arose out of our collaboration agreement with Bayer are licensed to us, including two United States patents covering Nexavar and pharmaceutical compositions of Nexavar. Both patents will expire January 12, 2020. These two patents are listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Product List (Orange Book). Based on publicly available information, Bayer also has patents in several European countries covering Nexavar, which will expire in 2020. Bayer has other patents and patent applications pending worldwide that cover Nexavar alone or in combination with other drugs for treating cancer. Certain of these patents may be subject to possible patent-term extension, the entitlement to and the term of which cannot presently be calculated, in part because Bayer does not share with us information related to its Nexavar patent portfolio. We cannot be certain that these issued patents and future patents if they issue will provide adequate protection for Nexavar or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. Similarly, we cannot be certain that the patents and patent applications acquired in the Proteolix acquisition, or licensed to us by any licensor, will provide adequate protection for carfilzomib or any other product, or will not be challenged by third parties in connection with the filing of an ANDA, or otherwise. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents, or patents that we license from others, may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications. Courts may find our patents invalid. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, which would reduce or eliminate any advantage the patents may give us. We may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications, or we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Third party patents may cover the materials, methods of treatment or dosage related to our product, or compounds to be used in combination with our products; those third parties may make allegations of infringement. We cannot provide assurances that our products 30 or activities, or those of our licensors or licensees, will not infringe patents or other intellectual property owned by third parties. Competitors may have independently developed technologies similar or complementary to ours, including compounds to be used in combination with our products. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to develop and market our product candidates. We may be unable to acquire required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain these required licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or, if approved, sale of our product candidates. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In addition, we may require interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These activities are uncertain, making any outcome difficult to predict and costly and may be a substantial distraction for our management team. Bayer may have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals, entities or consultants, including clinical investigators, to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these third parties to publish or otherwise publicly disclose information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations; however, these contracts may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be harmed. Limited foreign intellectual property protection and compulsory licensing could limit our revenue opportunities. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. Some companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe and developing countries, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, Bayer, the owner of the Nexavar patent estate, may have limited remedies if the Nexavar patents are infringed or if Bayer is compelled to grant a license of Nexavar to a third party. If compulsory licenses were extended to include Nexavar, this could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which may make it difficult to stop infringement. Many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. These factors could also negatively affect our revenue opportunities in those countries. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of drugs or are otherwise found in violation of federal and state regulations in the United States or elsewhere. To date, the FDA has approved Nexavar only for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and unresectable liver cancer. Physicians are not prohibited from prescribing Nexavar for the treatment of diseases other than advanced kidney cancer or unresectable liver cancer, however, we and Bayer are prohibited from promoting Nexavar for any non-approved indication, often called “off label” promotion. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting off label promotion and the promotion of products for which marketing authorization has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted an off label use may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading and non-promotional medical and scientific communication concerning their products. We engage in the support of medical education activities and engage investigators and potential investigators interested in our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding Nexavar are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. 31 Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. We believe we are well positioned with significant capital resources to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, if the current equity and credit markets do not sustain improvement or begin to deteriorate again, it may make any necessary future debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive, and may result in adverse changes to product reimbursement and pricing and sales levels, which would harm our operating results. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. There is also a possibility that our stock price may decline, due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn, such that we would lose our status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, which allows us to more rapidly and more cost-effectively raise funds in the public markets. Additionally, other challenges resulting from the current economic environment include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, increases in national unemployment impacting patients’ ability to access drugs, increases in uninsured or underinsured patients affecting their ability to afford pharmaceutical products, potential national healthcare reform’s impact on the pharmaceutical industry and increased U.S. free goods to patients. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products, compounds or product candidates, we will not be able to market or further develop them. If we have disagreements with Bayer regarding ownership of clinical trial results or regulatory approvals for Nexavar, and the FDA refuses to recognize Onyx as holding, or having access to, the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize Nexavar, we may experience delays in or be precluded from marketing Nexavar. For carfilzomib, we are responsible for managing communications with regulatory agencies, including filing investigational new drug applications, filing new drug applications, submission of promotional materials and generally directing the regulatory processes. We have limited experience directing such activities and may not be successful with our planned development strategies, on the planned timelines, or at all. Even if carfilzomib or any other product candidate is designated for “fast track” or “priority review” status or if we seek approval under accelerated approval (Subpart H) regulations, such designation or approval pathway does not necessarily mean a faster development process or regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. If we fail to conduct any required post-approval studies or if the studies fail to verify that any of our product candidates are safe and effective, our FDA approval could be revoked. If we or Bayer fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements we could be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions of regulatory approval, product recall, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. If we use hazardous or potentially hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous 32 materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and manufacturing efforts, which could harm our business. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Due to a highly competitive environment in kidney cancer and launches throughout the world, as well as potential changes in the treatment paradigm in liver cancer, Nexavar sales will be difficult to predict from period to period. Our operating expenses are highly dependent on expenses incurred by Bayer and are largely independent of Nexavar sales in any particular period or region. In addition, we expect to incur significant operating expenses associated with the development activities of ONX 0801 and carfilzomib. If we exercise our option rights related to ONX 0803 and ONX 0805, we will be required to pay significant license fees and would expect to incur significant development expenses for these compounds. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the level of demand for Nexavar, reimbursement availability for Nexavar in various countries, the timing and level of investments in sales and marketing efforts to support the sales of Nexavar, the timing and level of investments in the research and development of Nexavar, the ability of Bayer’s distribution network to process and ship Nexavar on a timely basis, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and expenditures we may incur to acquire or develop ONX 0801, carfilzomib, ONX 0803 and additional products. In addition, we must measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. Any such variance from one period to the next could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results. As a result of the acquisition of Proteolix, we may be required to pay up to an additional $575.0 million in earnout payments upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and that satisfaction of other milestones. We recorded a liability for this contingent consideration with a fair value of $199.0 million based upon a discounted cash flow model that uses significant estimates and assumptions. Any changes to these estimates and assumptions could significantly impact the fair values recorded for this liability resulting in significant charges to our Consolidated Statement of Operations. It is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results could disappoint securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. Our stock price is volatile and we are at risk of securities litigation, including class action litigation, due to our expected stock price volatility. Our stock price is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. In the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2009, our stock price ranged from a high of $59.50 and a low of $10.74. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on our stock price, including: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • interim or final results of, or speculation about, clinical trials of Nexavar; • development progress of our early stage compounds; • decisions by regulatory agencies, or changes in regulatory requirements; • announcements by us regarding, or speculation about, our business development activities; • ability to accrue patients into clinical trials; • developments in our relationship with Bayer; 33 • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products; • government regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights or litigation brought against us; • sales by us of our common stock or debt securities; • foreign currency fluctuations, which would affect our share of collaboration profits or losses; and • general market conditions. In the past, stockholders have often brought securities litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. In December 2006, following our announcement that a Phase 3 trial administering Nexavar or placebo tablets in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with advanced melanoma did not meet its primary endpoint, our stock price declined significantly. Similarly, following our announcement in February 2008 that one of our Phase 3 trials for NSCLC had been stopped because an independent DMC analysis concluded that it did not meet its primary endpoint of improved overall survival, our stock price declined significantly. With our acquisition of Proteolix, we may be required to pay up to $575.0 million in earn-out payments upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other milestones. We may, at our discretion, make any of the earn-out payments, except the first, that become payable to former holders of Proteolix preferred stock, in the form of cash, shares of Onyx common stock or a combination thereof. If we elect to issue shares of our common stock in lieu of making an earn-out payment in cash, this would have a dilutive effect on our common stock and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We may in the future be the target of securities litigation, including class action litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. We achieved profitability for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $16.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively. However, we incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $34.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $454.5 million. We have incurred losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, from our general and administrative costs and the development of our commercialization infrastructure. We might incur operating losses in the future as we expand our development and commercial activities for our products, compounds and product candidates. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant expenditures towards the development and commercialization of Nexavar. We may never realize sufficient product sales to offset these expenditures. In addition, we will require significant funds for the research and development, and if approved, commercialization of ONX 0801, carfilzomib and our other product candidates. Upon the attainment of specified milestones, we are required to make milestone payments to BTG. Similarly, with the acquisition of Proteolix, we made a payment of $276.0 million in cash upon closing and may be required to make up to $575.0 million in earn-out payments upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other milestones. Exercising any of our option rights under our agreement with S*BIO will also cause us to incur additional operating expenses. Our ability to achieve and maintain consistent profitability depends upon success by us and Bayer in marketing Nexavar in approved indications and the successful development and regulatory approvals of Nexavar in additional indications, obtaining regulatory approval for and successfully commercializing carfilzomib, and control of our operating expenses. 34 We incurred significant indebtedness through the sale of our 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of the notes and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred $230.0 million of senior indebtedness in August 2009 when we sold $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible senior notes due 2016, or the 2016 Notes. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain additional working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot assure stockholders that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the 2016 Notes, or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the notes and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the 2016 Notes and such other indebtedness. Any default under the notes or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The conditional conversion features of the 2016 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion features of the 2016 Notes are triggered, holders of the 2016 Notes will be entitled to convert the 2016 Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2016 Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2016 Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2016 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We may need additional funds, and our future access to capital is uncertain. We may need additional funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming activities related to the development and commercialization of Nexavar, carfilzomib and ONX 0801, and if we exercise our option rights, ONX 0803 and ONX 0805, including manufacturing, clinical trials and regulatory approval. Also, we may need funds to develop our early stage product candidates ONX 0912 and ONX 0914, to acquire rights to additional product candidates, or acquire new or complementary businesses. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • revenue from our product sales; • global product development and commercialization activities; • the cost involved in enforcing patents against third parties and defending claims by third parties; 35 • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products; • the cost of acquiring new or complementary businesses; • competing technological and market developments; and • future fee and milestone payments to BTG, S*BIO and former stockholders of Proteolix. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to fund our share of commercialization expenses and clinical trials. We may also have to curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We believe that our existing capital resources and interest thereon will be sufficient to fund our current development plans beyond 2010. However, if we change our development plans, acquire rights to or license additional products, or seek to acquire new or complementary businesses, we may need additional funds sooner than we expect. In addition, we anticipate that our expenses related to the development of ONX 0801, carfilzomib and our share of expenses under our collaboration with Bayer will increase over the next several years. While these costs are unknown at the current time, we may need to raise additional capital and may be unable to do so. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, and if auctions continue to fail for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. If the issuer of an auction rate security that we hold is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment charge to earnings. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities. The underlying assets of these securities are student loans substantially backed by the federal government. Due to adverse developments in the credit markets, beginning in February 2008, these securities have experienced failures in the auction process. When an auction fails for amounts we have invested, the security becomes illiquid. In the event of an auction failure, we are not able to access these funds until a future auction on these securities is successful. We have reclassified these securities from current to non-current marketable securities, and if the issuer is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the marketable securities through an impairment charge to earnings. If we do not receive timely and accurate financial information from Bayer regarding the development and sale of Nexavar, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations. Due to our collaboration with Bayer, we are highly dependent on Bayer for timely and accurate information regarding any revenues realized from sales of Nexavar and the costs incurred in developing and selling it, in order to accurately report our results of operations. If we do not receive timely and accurate information or incorrectly estimate activity levels associated with the co- promotion and development of Nexavar at a given point in time, we could be required to record adjustments in future periods and may be required to restate our results for prior periods. Such inaccuracies or restatements could cause a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or lead to claims against us, resulting in a decrease in the trading price of shares of our common stock. Our operating results could be adversely affected by product sales occurring outside the United States and fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies. A majority of Nexavar sales are generated outside of the United States, and a significant percentage of Nexavar commercial and development expenses are incurred outside of the United States. Under our collaboration agreement, we are currently funding 50% of mutually agreed development costs worldwide, excluding Japan. In all foreign countries, except Japan, Bayer first receives a portion of product revenues to repay Bayer for its foreign commercialization infrastructure, after which we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar. Bayer is funding 100% of development costs in Japan and pays us a single-digit royalty on Nexavar sales in Japan. Therefore, when these sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars by Bayer in determining amounts payable to us or payable by us, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currency in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure is the Euro. As we expand our business geographically, we could be exposed to exchange rate fluctuation in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and 36 U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge any transactions or account balances. Changes in accounting may affect our financial position and results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, in May 2008, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Subtopic 470-20, formerly known as Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Staff Position Accounting Principles Board 14-1, was issued. Under ASC Subtopic 470-20 issuers of certain convertible debt instruments that have a net settlement feature and may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement, are required to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument. The carrying amount of the liability component of any outstanding debt instrument is computed by estimating the fair value of a similar liability without the conversion option. The amount of the equity component is then calculated by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the principal amount of the convertible debt instrument. ASC 470-20 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Based on the requirements of ASC 470-20, we reported imputed interest expense related to the 2016 Notes of approximately $3.1 million during 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations,” codified to ASC Topic 805. ASC Topic 805 establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in the acquired target in a business combination. ASC Topic 805 also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination; requires purchased in-process research and development to be capitalized at fair value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. ASC Topic 805 is effective on a prospective basis and will impact business combination transactions for which the acquisition date occurs after December 15, 2008. We adopted ASC Topic 805 as of January 1, 2009 and the adoption of ASC Topic 805 had a material impact on the accounting for our acquisition of Proteolix in November 2009. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Bayer may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Bayer provides that if we are acquired by another entity by reason of merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and Bayer does not consent to the transaction, then for 60 days following the transaction, Bayer may elect to terminate our co-development and co-promotion rights under the collaboration agreement. If Bayer were to exercise this right, Bayer would gain exclusive development and marketing rights to the product candidates developed under the collaboration agreement, including Nexavar. If this happens, we, or our successor, would receive a royalty based on any sales of Nexavar and other collaboration products, rather than a share of any profits, which could substantially reduce the economic value derived from the sales of Nexavar to us or our successor. These provisions of our collaboration agreement with Bayer may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring us. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. Our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. 37 Provisions in the indenture for the 2016 Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the 2016 Notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of 2016 Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its notes in connection with such fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2016 Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter and executive change of control agreements we have entered into may prevent or delay a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or a change of control of us and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: • our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms; • the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; • all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the board or 10% or more of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; and • no cumulative voting. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even at stock prices higher than the then current stock price. We have entered into change in control severance agreements with each of our executive officers. These agreements provide for the payment of severance benefits and the acceleration of stock option vesting if the executive officer’s employment is terminated within 24 months of a change in control. The change in control severance agreements may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 38 