ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the information included in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2008. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Continued adverse conditions in the U.S. economy, and in particular the greater Chicago area, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Recently the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the economy in the Chicago area in particular has declined. A sustained deterioration in national or local economic conditions could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued, sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or in the Chicago-area markets may cause a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer and/or an increase in the number of borrowers or other counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current and further deterioration in the housing market could cause increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and depress our income and growth. The volume and credit quality of our one-to-four family and multi-family residential mortgages and loans may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in unemployment, decreased 24. Table of Contents or nonexistent housing price appreciation or increases in interest rates. These factors could reduce our earnings and consequently our financial condition because borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing our loans and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline and customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans, increase substantially our provision for losses on loans, or make fewer loans, which would reduce income. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. We maintain an allowance for loan losses sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. See “Item 1.—Business—Lending Activities—Allowance for Loan Losses.” The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. As a percentage of gross loans, the allowance was 0.55% at December 31, 2008. Over the past year, we increased our allowance as a percentage of gross loans based on management’s analysis of our credit quality, including an increase in non-performing loans, and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators would ever compel us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The interest rate environment over the last year has continued to compress our net interest margin. Also, if market rates increase, we expect our net interest margin to continue to decrease. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment rates, money supply and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 25. Table of Contents We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund our requirements. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers, including funding current loan commitments. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are our customers’ deposits, as well as Federal Home Loan Bank advances, amortization and prepayment of loans, maturities of investment securities and other short-term investments, and earnings and funds provided from operations. Across the banking industry, access to liquidity has tightened in the form of reduced borrowing lines and/or increased collateral requirements. To the extent our balance sheet (customer deposits and principal reductions on loans and securities) is not sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, we rely on alternative funding sources, which may be more expensive than organic sources. In the past, the Federal Home Loan Banks have provided cost-effective and convenient liquidity to many community banks, such as the Bank. However, current economic conditions have created earnings and capital challenges for some of the Federal Home Loan Banks that could limit (or preclude) their ability to provide adequate liquidity. We cannot predict the impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and its implementing regulations and actions by the FDIC. The programs established or to be established under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will result in increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The impact on our business as a result of participating or not participating in any such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans and deposits in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, thrifts and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. 26. Table of Contents Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. 