Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with our reliance on suppliers and subcontractors to procure raw materials and subcomponents. Seasonality Seasonal variations affect, to a relatively limited extent, our net sales. This limited impact is mainly due to seasonality in our customers’ operations. Due to the timing and purchasing decisions in certain of our customer segments, deliveries and sales to such customer segments are typically higher in the fourth quarter than during the other quarters of the year. This applies to all of our business areas. However, large projects, which for us are pulp and paper or mining related, tend to have long delivery timetables and are recognized as sales each quarter based on the percentage of completion. Weather conditions provide an additional reason for some seasonality especially in our Metso Minerals’ Crushing and Screening business line. As customers in the northern hemisphere make required machinery investments to construct roads in the region’s summer months, this typically increases deliveries in the second quarter of the year. Dependence on Intellectual Property We aim to create value through our ownership of intellectual property rights, which include Metso brand, patents, utility models, design protections, trademarks, copyrights and domain names. We emphasize our systematic intellectual property management and harmonized, corporate-wide practices. Attention is also paid to avoid infringements of the intellectual property rights of others. We seek to manage our intellectual property rights portfolios in a way that supports both competitiveness and technology leadership in our businesses. For example, our patent portfolio, including nearly 8,000 patents and over 3,100 pending applications, is regularly evaluated, screened and developed with current and future business needs and possibilities in mind to raise the value/cost ratio of the portfolio. In 2005, our employees filed approximately 660 invention disclosures. We sought protection in the form of patents for more than 160 new inventions relating to the products and services of all our business areas. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various local laws of the countries in which we operate, including the United States federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Under various environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), a current or former owner or operator of property may become liable for the costs of remediation or removal of certain hazardous substances on its property, regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. In addition, a generator of hazardous (29) Table of Contents substances may be responsible for all or a portion of remedial and investigation costs at offsite disposal locations. Metso Minerals Industries, Inc. or its predecessors (“MMII”) have been named, together with a number of other parties, as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for the remediation of two Wisconsin landfills (Hunt and Muskego), which have been designated as superfund sites under CERCLA. As a PRP, MMII is jointly and severally liable for the clean-up costs of such sites. With respect to Hunt landfill site, MMII, together with the other named PRPs, has entered into a consent decree with the United States government pursuant to which MMII and such other parties have agreed to pay the clean-up costs. MMII has a 6.3 percent share of the clean-up costs and has paid USD 406,250 for its share. Construction of the selected remedy for the Hunt site was completed in 1996. Remaining obligations at the site relate to maintenance and monitoring of the selected remedy. Based on advise from environmental consultants and amounts remaining in applicable generator trusts and related accounts, no additional contribution is contemplated. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) is currently conducting a five-year review of the Hunt site. With respect to the Muskego site, there is an administrative order in place, and no activities at the Muskego site have occurred since 1996. Management estimates that Metso Minerals’ maximum remaining liability, including remediation liability, with respect to the Hunt and Muskego sites will not exceed the currently established reserve of USD 267,000. MMII also has three sites at which it is undertaking environmental investigations and/or clean up under applicable U.S. State law and regulatory oversight. Metso Minerals has three sites with certain outstanding environmental matters. The first is a former manufacturing site in Mt. Olive, New Jersey in the United States. With the closing of manufacturing operations in 1987, the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act triggered an environmental assessment. Both soil and groundwater contamination was identified. To date, all known contaminated soil has been removed and the State of New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”) has issued a “No Further Action” letter regarding the soil contamination. MMII sold the site in December 2003. However, liabilities for ground water contamination issues were retained by MMII. In addition to the prior remediation activities at the site, MMII conducted a baseline ecological evaluation of the property as required by the NJDEP. The basic purpose of such evaluation was to determine whether site-related contamination presents a risk to or has impacted environmentally sensitive areas within or adjacent to the property. Such evaluation, together with a recommendation that no further ecological evaluation or testing be conducted at the site, was submitted to the NJDEP by an environmental consultant retained by us. NJDEP has yet to respond and there can be no assurance that the NJDEP agrees with such recommendation. However, taking into account (i) that we have purchased a pollution legal liability insurance policy for the site, which generally covers, subject to standard exclusions, clean-up costs, bodily injury and property damage for pre-existing and unknown pollution conditions, and (ii) that extensive prior remediation activities at the site have already been conducted, we do not anticipate any liability arising out of the final evaluation to be material. The estimated reserve required for the remediation measures relating to the ground water contamination and the completion of the baseline evaluation is USD 440,000. The second site is a former manufacturing property in Danville, Pennsylvania. Both soil and groundwater are contaminated with various contaminants from the historic manufacturing processes. In conjunction with the state of Pennsylvania, an approved remediation plan was developed and some soil was remediated. However, two additional areas of concern are being investigated and possibly remediated. USD 1 million has been reserved for estimated remediation costs. The third site is MMII’s former manufacturing facility in Pittsburg, Kansas. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (“KDHE”) has advised MMII that the soil and groundwater at the site and soil at a nearby foundry sand disposal location allegedly used by an MMII predecessor contains various contaminants. MMII has reviewed the KDHE consultant report on the manufacturing site and disputes the findings with regard to the concentrations of contaminants. Nevertheless, in lieu of an enforcement action by the KDHE, MMII has applied to participate in a KDHE voluntary cleanup program relative to the manufacturing site, which will initially involve an investigation by consultants retained by MMII. No action has yet been taken with regard to the foundry sand site. A total of USD 325,000 has been reserved for estimated legal fees and investigation costs. MMII, through its Reedrill business that was divested on December 31, 2004, was earlier identified as a PRP in two CERCLA sites. At one of the sites, liability has been assumed by a predecessor company. Regarding the other site, MMII has responded in March 2000 to an EPA request for information and identified predecessor companies as the potentially responsible parties. To date, no response by EPA has been received. (30) Table of Contents The MMII industrial and office facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado, was sold on January 31, 2006. Environmental assessments were made and purchaser contractually assumed all environmental liability related to the facility and has also purchased a pollution legal liability policy where MMII is also named as insured. On November 15, 2005, the MMII Keokuk, Iowa office and manufacturing facility was sold. The purchaser contractually assumed responsibility for all environmental liability related to the property. This includes current and future liability to the Iowa Department of Natural Resources for current monitoring and future enhanced remediation activities relative to contaminated groundwater. Further, the individual owners of the purchaser entity indemnified MMII against claims for failure of the purchaser to satisfy its obligations under the sales contract. Metso Panelboard, part of the Metso Ventures business area, has previously owned a site with certain environmental concerns. The site, located in Belgium, was owned by Constructiewerkhuizen De Mets N.V., a company divested in 2001. Pursuant to the sale agreement, we are required to provide the purchaser with an environmental certificate by the Belgian authorities, to the effect that the soil at the so-called New Workshop site has not been contaminated. Consequently, a third party conducted environmental studies and assessed the site. OVAM (Belgian environmental authority) accepted the descriptive soil study in the fall of 2005. The study included 13 phases in total and indicated that groundwater has been polluted by chlorinated hydrocarbons but that soil has not been polluted. The use of the chemicals found in the groundwater ended at site in 1989. The precautionary measures to prevent the spreading of this historical pollution with the flow of ground water started in January 2005. A cleaning plan will be presented for acceptance to OVAM in the spring of 2006. In accordance with the conditions of the sale agreement, we have estimated that our remaining responsibility for remediation costs will be limited to the currently established reserve of EUR 0.7 million. We strive to help our customers to achieve better environmental performances with our products and services. Our product development aims to also anticipate the changing environmental requirements in our customer industries. Best practices for life cycle design and environmental design support these development projects. The environmental impacts of our own production operations are limited. In June 2000, we signed the International Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) Business Charter for sustainable development, which compliments the environmental management principles of our own environmental policy. We expect that our most significant production sites will comply with ISO14001 environmental management systems in the future. In 2005, the ISO14001 certification was granted to three Metso sites, and the current amount of sites with the certification is 36. By the end of 2005, the ISO14001 systems covered 50 percent of the sales volume of our production facilities. When systems currently under development will be certified, 67 percent of our production activity will be covered. In 2005, we were selected a component in the European Dow Jones Sustainability Index, DJSI STOXX for the period of 2005-2006. We were also reselected for FTSE4Good corporate social responsibility index in 2005. In addition, we have been included in several other sustainability indices. We are committed to full compliance with all applicable national and international laws, regulations and generally accepted practices. Our environmental reporting procedure covers operating sites with significant environmental impacts. To our best knowledge, overall compliance with site-level permit conditions was proper in 2005. No major non-compliance situations were observed. Minor clean up, monitoring or investigation activities are being carried out at several sites as indicated above. However, our management anticipates that these cases do not result in material financial consequences for us and is not aware of any other current environmental matters that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Property, Plants and Equipment Our principal executive offices are located at Fabianinkatu 9 A, Helsinki, Finland. (31) Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, our principal office and manufacturing facilities included the following: Owned or Location of Facility Leased Size (sq.ft) Principal Activities Metso Corporation Helsinki, Finland Owned 86,920 Corporate head office Metso Paper Jyväskylä, Finland Owned 1,009,683 Large-sized Paper Machines Järvenpää, Finland Owned 622,596 Paper Finishing Machines Valmet-Xian, Xi’an, China(1) Leased 533,890 Paper and Board Machines, Foundry, Air Drying Systems Sundsvall, Sweden Owned 424,417 Pulping Machinery Karlstad, Sweden Owned 421,224 Board and Tissue Machines Laem Chabang, Thailand Owned 312,524 Service Center Valkeakoski, Finland Owned 230,921 Mechanical Pulping, Refiner Segments, Stock Preparation Equipment and Systems Appleton, Wisconsin, United States Owned 166,000 Finishing Products, Roll Service Turku, Finland Leased 155,252 Air Drying Systems Columbus, Mississippi, United States Owned 149,079 Roll Covering Aiken, South Carolina, United States Owned 124,400 Roll Covering Turku, Finland Leased 118,403 Air Drying Systems Neenah, Wisconsin, United States Owned 111,360 Roll Covering Cernay, France Leased 110,312 Roll Covering Clarks Summit, Pennsylvania, United States Owned 110,000 Roll Covering Como, Italy Leased 96,835 Paper and Board Machine Rebuilds Pfungstadt, Germany Owned 95,488 Service Center Tampere, Finland Leased 91,386 Roll Factory Gorizia, Italy Owned 89,179 Air Drying Systems Biddeford, Maine, United States Owned 88,000 Tissue Air Drying Systems, Tissue Process Services for Paper Machines Beloit, Wisconsin, United States Leased 86,800 Service Center Oulu, Finland Owned 82,258 Roll Covering Hollola, Finland Owned 77,149 Roll Handling Hagfors, Sweden Owned 70,865 Refiner Segments Järvenpää, Finland Leased 68,049 Paper Finishing Machines Federal Way, Washington, United States Owned 62,683 Roll Covering Como, Italy Leased 54,311 Paper and Board Machine Rebuilds Thunder Bay, Canada Leased 50,908 Air Drying Systems Wuxi, China Owned 50,388 Service Center Melbourne, Australia Owned 49,060 Service Center Corbehem, France Leased 48,450 Roll Covering Montreal, Canada Leased 45,000 Service Center, Components Shanghai, P.R. China Leased 43,670 Logistics Center Sorocaba, São Paulo, Brazil Owned 43,011 Service Center Florence, Alabama, United States Owned 40,000 Woodhandling Valkeakoski, Finland Leased 32,832 Mechanical Pulping, Refiner Segments, Stock Preparation Equipment and Systems Darmstadt, Germany Leased 9,149 Service Center Metso Minerals Sorocaba, São Paulo, Brazil Owned 740,260 Rock Crushers, Vibrating Equipment, Castings, Rubber manufacturing Isithebe, South Africa Leased 602,140 Manganese Wear Parts Viña del Mar, Chile Owned 538,000 Wear Protection and Conveyors Mâcon, France Owned 532,723 Rock Crushers and Vibrating Equipment Tampere, Finland Owned 510,990 Rock Crushers, Mobile Crushing Equipment (32) Table of Contents Owned or Location of Facility Leased Size (sq.ft) Principal Activities Düsseldorf, Germany Owned 420,223 Metal Recycling Machines Vereeniging, South Africa Owned 330,386 Rock Crushers, Pave parts Ahmedabad, India Owned 63,399 Castings and Parts for Rock Crushers and Pumps Bawal, India Owned 41,979 Rock Crushers, Vibrating Equipment and Pumps Sala, Sweden Owned 247,570 Slurry Pumps and Process Equipment Trelleborg, Sweden Leased 242,100 Rubber Manufacturing Columbia, South Carolina, United States Owned 203,000 Vibrating Equipment and Spare Parts Gastonia, North Carolina, United States(2) Owned 168,000 Vibrating Equipment Warrenton, Missouri, United States Owned 150,000 Wire Screen Media Manufacturing Clarksdale, Mississippi, United States Leased 138,400 Conveyor Component Manufacturing Newcastle, Australia Owned 132,500 Vibrating Equipment and Spare Parts York, Pennsylvania, United States Owned 131,965 Mill Equipment and Parts Kongsvinger, Norway Leased 107,639 Conveyor Belts Tampere, Finland Owned 96,875 Conveyor Belts Ersmark, Sweden Owned 95,800 Rubber Manufacturing Vicálvaro, Spain Owned 80,000 Rock Crusher Spare Parts and Vibrating Equipment Portland, Oregon, United States Owned 70,968 Rock Crusher Service and Spare Parts Matamata, New Zealand Owned 62,400 Rock Crushers and Spare Parts Belleville, Canada Owned 58,000 Idler Manufacturing Dungannon, Northern Ireland Owned 56,000 Mobile Screens North Bay, Canada Owned 55,000 Rubber Manufacturing Perth, Australia Owned 48,438 Rubber Manufacturing Moers, Germany Owned 47,361 Conveyor Belts Tianjin, China Owned 46,466 Rock Crushers Evergem, Belgium Leased 46,285 Conveyor Belts San Antonio, Texas, United States Owned 40,000 Office, Metal Recycling Machines Metso Automation Helsinki, Finland Leased 442,400 Office, Valve and Accessories Manufacturing and Testing Tampere, Finland Owned 323,300 Office, Automation Systems Manufacturing and Testing Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, United States Owned 175,000 Valve and Accessories Manufacturing Shanghai, China(1) Leased 173,000 Valve Manufacturing Lansdale, Pennsylvania, United States Leased 84,700 Office, Control Systems Manufacturing Kajaani, Finland Leased 73,800 Office, Specialty Analyzers Manufacturing and Testing Metso Ventures Uusikaupunki, Finland Owned 1,216,000 Car Assembly Hannover, Germany Leased 41,441 Office, Energy plants, dryers Sundsvall, Sweden Leased 10,700 Office, MDF line machines Nastola, Finland Leased 35,572 Office, Particleboard and OSB linemachines Jyväskylä, Finland Owned 394,000 Foundry Tampere, Finland Owned 288,020 Foundry Karlstad, Sweden Owned 526,258 Foundry (1) Joint Venture, see “ —Associated Companies” below. (2) Scheduled to be closed during 2006. Our management believes that the production capacity of each of our production plants is adequate and suitable for our current business needs and that suitable additional or alternative space would be available in the future, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms. (33) Table of Contents Significant Subsidiaries The majority of our operating assets in Finland and outside of Finland are held through regional or divisional subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2005, our significant subsidiaries, as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, were as follows, each of which is wholly owned by Metso Corporation: Company Name Country of Incorporation Metso Paper Oy Finland Metso Minerals Oy Finland Metso Minerals Holding AB Sweden Metso USA Inc. United States Associated Companies We currently own 35.8 percent of Allimand S.A., which, as of December 31, 2005, had an equity value of approximately EUR 5 million; 48.3 percent of Valmet-Xian Paper Machinery Co. Ltd., which had an equity value of approximately EUR 8 million; 50.0 percent of Shanghai Neles-Jamesbury Valve Co. Ltd., which had an equity value of approximately EUR 4 million; and 48.2 percent of Avantone Oy, which had an equity value of approximately EUR 1 million. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. The following discussion and analysis by our management concerning the financial condition and the results of operations of Metso should be read together with the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. A reconciliation of the amounts of net income and shareholders’ equity reported under IFRS to the amounts determined under U.S. GAAP, and a discussion of the principal differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP are set out in Note 40 to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this annual report. Business Overview Our Customers Our main customer industries are pulp and paper, rock and minerals processing as well as energy, oil and gas industries. Certain important trends apply to these industries, which have an effect on our operations. Service, refurbishment and rebuilds business, which is driven by the installed base of machinery and equipment, has been growing especially in Europe and North America, where our customers have been focusing more on efficiency improvements for their existing processes rather than investing on new machinery or equipment. Demand for new machinery and equipment focuses on areas with strong economic growth and/or good availability of raw materials required, which supports demand for pulp and paper as well as rock and minerals processing investments. Such areas include Asia and South America. Accordingly, we are in the process of adapting our own organization in Europe and North America by cutting new machine related resources and strengthened aftermarket and process service related resources, while, in the growing markets of Asia and South America, we have increased our new machine related resources. Business Drivers Paper consumption growth is the key driver for pulp and paper investments. Shorter-term capacity utilization rates and changes in pulp, paper and board prices have an effect on investment activity of Metso Paper’s customers. Also changes in environmental legislation have an impact on their investment activity. Within the paper industry, new papermaking capacity has mostly been built in Asia, mainly China, during the past few years. The demand in the Chinese market has been supported by economic growth that, in turn, has increased paper consumption significantly. The equipment demand has been increasing for high-grade paper products, which has increased the investments of Metso Paper’s customers in high-speed and high-quality machinery and equipment. Most of Metso Paper’s net sales still originate from Nordic countries, Western (34) Table of Contents Europe and North America, while demand for paper and board is increasing faster than average in Eastern Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. South American customers have in the recent years been active in investing in new pulping capacity due to the good availability of fast growing wood resources, such as eucalyptus, in the region. Our management expects that this competitive advantage will continue to support demand for pulp equipment in South America during the next several years as well. Asia is also a growing market for pulping lines. Our customers in the European pulp and paper industry have in the past few years focused on machine rebuilds and process improvements even though some major new capacity investments have also been made. As demand for paper products in Europe is not expected to increase significantly, the current investment level could continue for a few years. In North America, investment activity in the pulp and paper industry has been low. In packaging board, the consumption is estimated to grow especially in China, because various packaging intense export industries have moved there from the Western countries and Japan. Packaging board is also becoming lighter. This trend is clear in Europe, where machines are being developed to produce lighter grades. Development of the converting and printing methods related to packaging materials has led to stricter quality requirements, which is reflected in the demand for board machine rebuilds. An increase in the demand for daily consumer goods in the emerging markets requires an increase in the production of interior packaging materials in these areas. Our management expects the demand for tissue machines to grow especially in the emerging markets, most of all in Asia. In these markets, demand has been greatest for small and less expensive machines. Our management expects also the demand for the larger tissue machines to pick up gradually in North America. Metso Minerals’ business environment is dependent on the demand in the civil engineering, mining and metal recycling industries. Development of the civil engineering industry is affected especially by the amount of infrastructure investments, which is reflected directly in the demand for aggregates. The mining industry’s willingness to invest is affected by changes in the demand for and price of metals. Aggregates demand is forecasted to grow especially in China, India, Russia, the United States and Eastern Europe. Aggregates production is increasing in the United States, due to the fact that, in July 2005, the United States Congress approved a new Transportation Equity Act (SAFETEA-LU), allocating almost USD 300 billion for the development of the country’s transportation infrastructure until 2009. This is a 30 percent increase compared to the amount that was reserved for the development of the country’s transportation infrastructure for the previous six-year period. Our management believes that this bill will have a positive effect on Metso Minerals’ business, especially during the first three years. Road construction projects in Eastern Europe supported by the EU are also expected to increase the demand for Metso Minerals’ aggregates production equipment. In North America and Europe, demand for our products in the mining industry is weighted towards the aftermarket and service business. New mining projects are being started mainly in the southern hemisphere. The most significant factor affecting demand for minerals has been the rapid growth of the Chinese economy, making China the world’s leading consumer of metals. Customers’ high capacity utilization during a favorable price and demand situation has also increased demand for Metso Minerals’ products. Mining companies have tried to respond to higher demand especially by increasing their material handling capacity. However, the lack of resources, and especially of experienced project managers and engineering personnel, is expected to level out demand in the coming years, and investment project schedules have, in some cases, been lengthened. The demand for scrap metal is expected to remain strong in the next few years. Steel companies are using increasingly more scrap metal for production instead of virgin iron ore. Approximately one-half of Metso Automation’s net sales are derived from the pulp and paper industry, and the apparent trends in that industry affect the business environment of Metso Automation. Most of the remaining sales are derived from the energy, oil and gas industries where customer investment activity reflects both the demand for and price of oil and energy. New pulp and paper industry investments are focused mainly in Asia and South America. The aging machine and equipment base in Europe and North America is increasing the demand for performance-enhancing solutions and services. This is estimated to increase the significance of automation solutions, such as preventive condition monitoring. Demand for oil has outpaced the producers’ ability to boost their capacity, and nowadays oil refining capacity is insufficient in relation to the demand for end products. The resulting sharp rise in the price of crude oil and petroleum products is expected to lead to the construction of new refining capacity and the modernization of existing production plants. Since the demand for oil and petroleum products is greater than the supply, the demand for valves is expected to increase and the valve market is expected to remain good. Moreover, the energy and process industry is expected to increase its investments in automation systems. Key Management Issues In 2005, the key issues in our management were to secure continued positive profitability improvement in all our business areas as a result of restructuring actions taken in 2003-2004 and to simultaneously exploit the (35) Table of Contents favorable development in the market environment. In Metso Paper, we still continued our restructuring actions mainly during the first half of the year while in the other business areas the focus was clearly moved from restructuring to continuous improvement. In August 2005, we launched our new profitable growth strategy for the 2006-2008 strategy period and started consequently to move more focus to growth issues including also potential complementary acquisitions. For a discussion of our strategy, see “