ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively as we pursue our strategy, it could negatively affect our results of operations We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe that we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. 12 Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where it operates Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Any adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 78% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of this amount, approximately 69% were commercial real estate loans, 10% were residential real estate loans and 19% were construction and development loans. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion In addition to our pending merger transaction with The Bank of Venice, we may acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirors. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; entry into new markets where we lack experience; the introduction of new products and services into our business; the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 13 We may incur substantial costs to expand, and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for The Bank of Venice or any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Florida, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Additionally, the availability of property insurance, including windstorm and flood insurance, and the significant increases in the cost thereof in the Florida market may negatively affect borrowers’ abilities to repay existing loans and the abilities of potential borrowers to qualify for new loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, TIB Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2006, approximately 78% of TIB Bank’s loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require TIB Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, TIB Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Our indirect lending program has a limited operating history and, as a result, the financial performance to date of this program may not be a reliable indicator of whether this business will continue to be successful A significant portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers primarily located in Southwest Florida. We began this program in 2002 and as of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $142 million of indirect loans outstanding. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, they involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are secured, they are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. In addition, given the relatively unseasoned nature of this portfolio, credit problems may not have surfaced or become apparent yet, but may arise in the future. 14 Our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues Our primary strategy for building market share in Southwest Florida is based on establishing new branches. We currently plan to open one to two additional branches each year in 2007 and 2008. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally stable interest rate environment or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amounts or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our borrowing agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. 15 We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The various federal and state regulatory agencies have advised that they may require enhanced credit monitoring and at times set limits or restrictions on certain lending activities based upon concentrations of risk identified (for example, concentrations of commercial real estate loans exceeding 300% of capital). We cannot assure compliance with any possible future requirements will not adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or grow at the rates we desire. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. Our directors and executive officers own a portion of our common stock Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. We are dependent upon the services of our management team Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Risk Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Future capital needs could result in dilution of shareholders’ investments Our board of directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of current shareholders in the Company and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for stock quoted on The NASDAQ National Market, and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The NASDAQ National Market during 2006 was approximately 9,583 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of TIB Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to state banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $33 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any written comments during 2006 from the Commission staff regarding our periodic and current reports under the Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved from any prior period. 17 ITEM 