ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the following factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect its stock price. Risk factors which could cause future financial performance to differ materially from the expectations as expressed in any of FactSet’s forward-looking statements made by or on the Company’s behalf include, without limitation: A prolonged decline in equity returns impacting the buying power of FactSet’s investment management clients Since September 1, 2008, major equity indices (e.g., Dow Jones Industrials, Russell 1000, MSCI EAFE, S&P 500 and NASDAQ Composite) have experienced declines greater than 15% coupled with increased levels of volatility. A prolonged decline in the equity markets could impact the size and buying power of many of FactSet’s clients. FactSet derives 82% of its revenues from investment management clients. The prosperity of these clients is tied to equity assets under management (“AUM”). An equity market decline not only depresses AUM but could cause a significant increase in redemption requests to move money out of equities and into other asset classes. Moreover, extended declines in the equity markets may reduce new fund or client creation resulting in lower demand for services from investment managers. While increased use of FactSet services among hedge funds is not a significant driver of recent revenue growth, the Company does have more hedge fund clients today than three years ago. A decline in the equity markets could increase the normal rate of hedge fund closures and increase asset redemption rates in the near term. Many hedge funds rely on performance fees and utilize leverage. In addition, the rate of closure related to small hedge funds may increase if they were relying on performance fees to cover operating costs. Historically, the correlation between the results of FactSet’s operations and the performance of the global equity markets has not been one to one. Today, the Company believes that its market opportunity may be 10 times its current size even if the global equity markets, which FactSet services, shrink by 15%. Difficult market conditions may increase the value of FactSet’s ability to consolidate services for clients, including deploying real-time news and quotes, and may help advance the sales of proprietary content. Continued turmoil, consolidation, and business failures in the global investment banking industry may cause us to lose additional clients and users The global investment banking industry has been experiencing turmoil, consolidation and business failures over the past two years. The turmoil, consolidation and business failures have resulted and are expected to continue to result, in a reduction in the number of users and prospective clients from the investment banking sector. FactSet’s sell-side clients account for approximately 18% of its revenues. A significant portion of these revenues relate to services deployed by large, bulge bracket banks. The credit crisis that began in August 2007 continues to impact many of the large banking clients due to the amount of leverage deployed in past operations. Clients such as Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Wachovia were purchased by other firms as their viability as stand-alone entities came into question. More of the Company’s clients could encounter similar problems. The recent lack of confidence in the global banking system caused declines in merger and acquisitions funded by debt. Additional turmoil, consolidation and business failures in the global investment banking sector could adversely affect FactSet’s financial results and future growth. FactSet services equity research and M&A departments. These are low risk businesses that do not deploy leverage and will likely continue to operate far into the future and should represent a larger percentage of the overall revenues of its clients. Regardless, the size of banks in general is shrinking as they deleverage their balance sheets and adjust their expense bases to future revenue opportunities. The Company’s revenues may decline if banks including those involved in recent merger activity significantly reduce headcount in the areas of corporate M&A and equity research to compensate for the issues created by other departments. 11 Table of Contents A global market crisis and related economic recession may affect FactSet’s revenues and liquidity Current global economic and financial market conditions, and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, could adversely affect FactSet’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These conditions also could materially impact clients, including large accounts, causing them to go out of business entirely; defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of the subscriptions they purchase from FactSet in the future; or terminate existing relationships. Changes of this type could significantly affect FactSet’s business and liquidity or could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. If FactSet is unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, the Company may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and its business could be adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic conditions could reduce the overall demand for integrated financial information as global companies consolidate purchasing, downsize departmental budgets and reduce company-wide discretionary spending. Increased competition in FactSet’s industry that may cause price reductions or loss of market share FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products. Its competitors range in size from multi-billion dollar companies to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. While the Company believes the breadth and depth of its suite of products and applications offer benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors are likely to offer price incentives to acquire new business. These competitive pricing pressures may result in decreased sales volumes and price reductions, resulting in lower revenues. Weak economic conditions can also result in clients’ seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. The impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries FactSet serves could lower demand for its services. In fiscal 2009, FactSet saw clients intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs as a result of the more challenging market conditions. Clients within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on financial market data and related services. If clients elect to reduce their spending with FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Alternatively, clients may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial market data services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, by selecting vendors with lower-cost offerings or by self-sourcing their need for financial market data. If clients elect to consolidate their spending on financial market data services with other vendors and not FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. FactSet must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to maintain its leading technological position The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products and product enhancements that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and the Company’s new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data Many of FactSet’s products and services, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including client portfolios. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, misappropriation of client data by an employee or an external third party could occur, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of the Company’s security measures could expose FactSet, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to the company’s brand and reputation. A prolonged or recurring outage at one of FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to rapidly and efficiently process substantial volumes of data and transactions on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to seek to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. In addition, FactSet maintains insurance for some such events. However, the insurance FactSet carries is likely not to be sufficient to compensate the Company fully for losses 12 Table of Contents or damages that may occur as a result of such material events. In addition, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers. Any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective. Malicious, ignorant or illegal employee acts regarding insider information If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls surrounding insider information, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, misappropriation of insider information by an employee, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of the Company’s insider information could expose FactSet, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential clients and damage to the Company’s brand and reputation. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt FactSet’s operations Despite FactSet’s implementation of network security measures, its servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with the Company’s computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine the Company’s own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations by clients, FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. FactSet’s ability to integrate and market FactSet Fundamentals as a high quality asset and win new clients FactSet Fundamentals is projected to be accretive to earnings per share in fiscal 2010. In order to ensure accuracy of these estimates, FactSet must build on a content collection operation to populate the FactSet Fundamentals database. This complex process involves hiring, training and retaining hundreds of employees and successfully deploying collection software and processes. In addition, FactSet must be able to market and sell FactSet Fundamentals to new and existing clients. FactSet’s ability to integrate newly acquired companies FactSet has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions from time to time. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into FactSet’s operations, and there can be no assurances that FactSet will manage acquisitions successfully. The related risks include the Company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business. Under generally accepted accounting principles, FactSet reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price, market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in its industry. FactSet may be required to record a charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an impact on its results of operations. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing databases or products As a leading provider of global financial and economic information, FactSet relies on its ability to combine hundreds of commercial databases into its own dedicated online service. FactSet’s business employs a wide variety of data from a substantial number of data suppliers around the world. Certain FactSet databases rely on a limited number of suppliers, although FactSet makes every effort to assure that alternative sources are available. The failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. Exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact financial results and cash flows The Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because 55% of FactSet’s employees and over 36% of its leased office space are located outside the U.S. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company’s primary exposures relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses in Europe, Japan and India. This exposure has increased during fiscal 2009 as compared to the year ago period primarily because the percentage of FactSet revenues invoiced and paid in non-U.S. dollars has decreased. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar increases operating expenses. From time to time, FactSet enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. FactSet’s attempt to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require the Company to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, enter into settlements, require FactSet to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue making significant expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk. FactSet defends its intellectual property rights and combats unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of its rights is difficult. While these activities adversely affect U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from outside the U.S. could be more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of FactSet’s products or to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary FactSet’s success depends significantly upon its proprietary technology. FactSet has registered trademarks and copyrights for many of its products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. FactSet generally enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, customers, resellers, vendors and others. The Company seeks to protect its software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. While FactSet does not believe it is dependent on any one of its intellectual property rights, the Company does rely on the combination of intellectual property rights and other measures to protect its proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of FactSet content or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use its proprietary information. In addition, FactSet cannot be certain that others will not develop or acquire substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that equivalent or better products will not be marketed in competition with its services, thereby substantially reducing the value of its proprietary rights. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use information that FactSet regards as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws in the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to protect the Company’s proprietary technology which may be time-consuming and expensive, with no assurance of success. Volatility in general economic conditions Future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; interest rate increases; inflationary pressures or volatile energy prices; political or social unrest; terrorist attacks; economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures; political considerations that affect data and service providers and government spending patterns; health or similar issues, such as pandemic or epidemic (including the H1N1 virus outbreak); difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. FactSet believes that demand for its solutions could be disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the economy, which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenues, expenses and financial condition. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel FactSet’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. The Company is limited in its ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. Resolution of ongoing and other probable audits by tax authorities FactSet is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of its business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s provision for income taxes, tax liability or effective tax rates in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before 14 Table of Contents taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. FactSet is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although FactSet believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on its provision for income taxes and tax liability. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on its income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm FactSet’s operating results FactSet is party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain matters in which FactSet is involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, contained in Part I of this report. Changes in accounting may affect FactSet’s reported earnings and operating income Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of its business are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in accounting rules, their interpretation, or changes in the Company’s products or business could significantly change its reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, FactSet uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management’s knowledge of current events and actions that FactSet may undertake in the future. Significant estimates have been made in areas that include income and other taxes, useful lives of fixed assets and intangibles, accrued liabilities, accrued compensation, stock-based compensation, receivable reserves, contingent liabilities and allocation of purchase price to assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, FactSet makes certain estimates under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 5, Accounting for Contingencies, including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore actual results may differ. Internal controls may be ineffective Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, FactSet is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in its implementation, its business and operating results could be adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 