ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively as we pursue our strategy, it could negatively affect our results of operations We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe that we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Florida, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. 10 Table of Contents In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, TIB Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, approximately 77% of TIB Bank’s loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require TIB Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, TIB Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Our indirect lending program has a limited operating history and, as a result, the financial performance to date of this program may not be a reliable indicator of whether this business will continue to be successful A significant portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers primarily located in Southwest Florida. We began this program in 2002 and as of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $118 million of indirect loans outstanding. We plan to grow this portfolio further. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, they involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are secured, they are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. In addition, given the relatively unseasoned nature of this portfolio, credit problems may not have surfaced or become apparent yet, but may arise in the future. Our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues Our strategy for building market share in Southwest Florida is based on establishing new branches. We currently plan to open one new branch and relocate an existing branch in the coming year. We also plan to open at least one additional branch in 2007. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for several years. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to be a drag on our earnings for some period of time. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. We are dependent upon the services of our management team Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Risk Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Future capital needs could result in dilution of shareholders’ investments Our board of directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of current shareholders in the Company and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for stock quoted on The NASDAQ National Market, and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The NASDAQ National Market during 2005 was approximately 4,641 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. ITEM 