RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in our other reports and filings made with the Securities and 22 Exchange Commission before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks relating to the proposed merger with EpiCept Corporation. In March 2005, we retained Piper Jaffray & Co. to advise and assist in identifying and evaluating our strategic options. Piper Jaffray & Co. is a leading investment bank serving the life science industry. In September 2005, we announced that we entered into a definitive merger agreement with EpiCept. The closing of the transaction is subject to satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions, including the approval of our stockholders. We have scheduled a special meeting of stockholders on December 21, 2005 for the purpose of voting on a proposal to adopt and approve the merger agreement and approve the merger. We anticipate closing the transaction in January 2006. If and at the time the transaction closes we will owe Piper Jaffray & Co. $600,000 for their services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to close our business combination with EpiCept. In the event that the merger agreement is terminated by EpiCept or us due to the failure of our stockholders to adopt the merger agreement, we are required to pay all reasonable expenses of EpiCept up to $650,000. Under certain other conditions as described in the merger agreement if the transaction is not completed, we could be required to make payments to EpiCept totaling up to $1.4 million. Also, if the proposed transaction does not close, there can be no assurance that existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to complete an alternative strategic transaction. In addition, the transaction will require us to incur charges or incur other substantial financial obligations and may pose significant integration challenges with respect to our business including the development of our product candidates, and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Should we be required to seek additional capital to complete such a transaction, there can be no assurance that such additional financing, if required, will be available when needed or, if available, will be on satisfactory terms. The combined company’s board of directors will consist of five current EpiCept directors and two of our current directors. Further, if the proposed transaction is completed, our stockholders will own approximately 28% of the combined company. Consequently, our stockholders will be able to exercise less influence over the management and policies of EpiCept than they currently exercise over our management and our policies. The development of our drug candidates is subject to uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. If we fail to successfully develop our drug candidates, our ability to generate revenues will be substantially impaired. Potential products based on our Ceplene technology, oral histamine, apoptosis modulator and topical histamine gel technologies will require, dependent upon the specific drug candidate, extensive research and development, preclinical testing, clinical testing, collaborative partners to conduct certain clinical trials, regulatory approval and substantial additional investment before we can market them. We cannot assure you that any of our drug candidates will: • be successfully developed; • prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable United States or international regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; • be commercially viable; 23 • be eligible for third party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers; or • achieve market acceptance. For example, in September 2004, we announced that our confirmatory M0104 trial of Ceplene in combination with IL-2 for the treatment of advanced malignant melanoma patients with liver metastases failed to demonstrate an improvement in overall patient survival, the primary endpoint. As a result, we withdrew our pending NDA seeking approval of Ceplene therapy to treat advanced malignant melanoma patients with liver metastases. We have not completed final testing for efficacy or safety in humans for the diseases we propose to treat with Ceplene and our other drug candidates. Failure to ultimately obtain approval for Ceplene and our other drug candidates, any delay in our expected testing and development schedules, the failure to engage a collaborative partner, or any elimination of a product development program in its entirety, will negatively impact our ability to generate revenues in the future from the sale of our product candidates. We may not obtain regulatory clearance to market our drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA, European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMEA, and other governmental and similar international regulatory approvals is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for a drug candidate, the FDA, EMEA and similar international regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve the candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may refuse to approve an application for approval of a drug candidate if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. For example, in May 2004, we announced the results of an international Phase 3 clinical trial testing the combination of Ceplene plus IL-2 in patients with AML in complete remission. The primary endpoint of the Phase 3 trials was achieved using intent-to-treat analysis, as patients treated with the Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy experienced a statistically significant increase in leukemia-free survival compared to patients in the control arm of the trial. In January 2005, we announced that based on ongoing correspondence with the FDA, as well as consultations with external advisors, we determined that an additional Phase 3 clinical trial will be necessary to further evaluate Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy for the treatment of AML patients in complete remission before applying for regulatory approval in the United States. We currently anticipate filing an application for approval in Europe during the first half of 2006 based on the results of the AML clinical trial. However, we have no assurance that (i) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies will not require an additional Phase 3 trial, (ii) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies would approve regulatory filings for drug approval, or (iii) if an additional Phase 3 trial is required, that the results from such additional Phase 3 trial would confirm the results from the first Phase 3 trial. In addition, manufacturing facilities operated by the third party manufacturers with whom we contract to manufacture our drug candidates may not pass a FDA, EMEA or similar international regulatory pre-approval inspection. Moreover, if the FDA, EMEA or similar international regulatory agency grants regulatory approval of a product candidate, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. Similar international regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Any failure or delay in obtaining these approvals could prohibit or delay us from marketing our 24 drug candidates. If our drug candidates do not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval, we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of these candidates, and we may not generate revenues from the commercial sale of any of our products. Delays in the commencement, conduct or completion of our clinical trials would negatively impact our business. We may encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical studies, including having inadequate resources to conduct clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval. For example, we may encounter delays in commencing studies or enrolling volunteers, lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers in a trial or serious side effects experienced by study participants relating to the drug candidate. Factors that could affect patient enrollment include the size of the patient enrollment population for the targeted disease, eligibility criteria, proximity of eligible patients to clinical sites, clinical trial protocols and the existence of competing protocols, including competitive financial incentives for patients and clinicians, and existing approved drugs. If we encounter any delay in the commencement, conduct or completion of our clinical studies for our drug candidates, we may experience the following consequences: • the analysis of data from our clinical studies and the reporting of results may be delayed; • the submission of our applications for regulatory approval of our drug candidates with regulatory authorities in North America, Europe and elsewhere in the world may be delayed; • regulatory approval of our drug candidates may be delayed and may not occur on a timely basis, delaying the generation of revenues from the commercial sale of any of our marketed product candidates; • we may not have the financial resources to continue and complete research and development of any of our product candidates; and • we may not be able to enter into collaborative arrangements relating to any potential product as a result of the delay in clinical development or regulatory filings. Because we are dependent on clinical research centers and other contractors for clinical testing and for certain research and development activities, the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy requires us to rely on clinical research centers and our other contractors to assist us with clinical testing and certain research and development activities. As a result, our success is dependent upon the success of these outside parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we believe our contractors are economically motivated to perform on their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise applied to these activities by our contractors. If our contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed. 25 We expect to rely on collaborative partners for research and development and commercialization of certain potential products. We expect to rely on collaborative arrangements for research and development and commercialization of certain drug candidates discovered and developed by us, such as our agreement with Myriad related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. With respect to any additional clinical trials of Ceplene for the treatment of patients with AML, as well as other applications of our histamine technology, the Company also believes that further clinical development would need to be conducted in collaboration with a corporate partner, and we intend to pursue such partnering opportunities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain these collaborations or enter into any future collaborative arrangements, that any of our collaborations will be successful or that we will receive revenues from any of these collaborations. The success of these and any future collaborations will depend, in significant part, on our partners’ development and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products being developed or marketed by competitors. If our partners fail to conduct their activities in a timely manner, or at all, preclinical or clinical development of drug candidates under those collaborations could be delayed or terminated. The suspension or termination of our collaborations, the failure of our collaborations to be successful or the delay in the development or commercialization of drug candidates pursuant to our collaborations could harm our business. Our planned business may expose us to product, clinical trial and other liability claims. Our design, testing and development of potential products involves an inherent risk of exposure to clinical trial and product liability claims and related adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we currently maintain clinical trial insurance for our drug candidates in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a claim is brought against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our products may not be accepted, purchased or used by doctors, patients or payors. Our drug candidates may not achieve market acceptance even if they are approved by the FDA, EMEA and similar international regulatory agencies. We cannot guarantee that physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general will accept and utilize any products that we develop. The degree of market acceptance of our potential products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the scope of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy, safety and advantages of our product candidates by clinical trial results, and the acceptance of such results by the medical community; • the potential advantages of our products over existing treatment methods; and • reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors. We have yet to market or sell any of our product candidates. We currently intend to rely on collaborative partners to market and sell our drug candidates in the United States and in international markets, if approved for sale in such markets. We have not yet entered 26 into any collaborative arrangement with respect to marketing or selling Ceplene with the exception of agreements relating to Australia, New Zealand and Israel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into any additional such arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all for Ceplene or any other drug candidate. If we are able to enter into marketing and selling arrangements with collaborative partners, we cannot assure you that such marketing collaborators will apply adequate resources and skills to their responsibilities, or that their marketing efforts will be successful. If we are unable to enter into collaborative arrangements, or our marketing collaborators efforts are not successful, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will suffer. We will be dependent on third party manufacturers of our product candidates. Our ability to sell our product candidates may be harmed if adequate quantities of our product candidates are not manufactured on a timely basis. We do not intend to acquire or establish our own dedicated manufacturing facilities for our drug candidates in the foreseeable future. We have contracted and expect to continue to contract with established pharmaceutical manufacturers for the production of our drug candidates. If we are unable to continue to contract with third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms or our manufacturers do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, our ability to conduct clinical testing and to produce commercial quantities of our product candidates will be adversely affected. If we cannot adequately manufacture our product candidates, it could result in delays in submissions for regulatory approval and in commercial product launches, which in turn could materially impair our competitive position and the possibility of achieving profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our existing contract manufacturing relationships, or acquire or establish new, satisfactory third-party relationships to provide adequate manufacturing capabilities in the future. We are not profitable and expect to continue to incur losses. If we do not become profitable, we may ultimately be forced to discontinue our operations. We are a development-stage enterprise. We have experienced net losses every year since our inception. Our net losses applicable to common stock were $27.7 million, $45.0 million and $45.5 million for the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. As of September 30, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $379.2 million. We anticipate incurring substantial additional losses over at least the next several years related to developing and testing our drug candidates and preparing for commercialization and planned market launches of our products. If we do not become profitable, our stock price will be negatively affected, and we may ultimately be forced to discontinue our operations. We may never generate product revenues or become profitable. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues, expenses and losses, some of which could be significant. We will need to raise additional funds in the future. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to continue our operations, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs. We have already spent substantial funds developing our potential products and business. We expect to continue to have negative cash flow from our operations for at least the next several years. We will have to raise additional funds to complete the development of our drug candidates and to bring them to market. Our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • the results of our clinical trials; • the timing and scope of any additional clinical trials undertaken; 27 • the scope and results of our research and development programs; • the time required to obtain regulatory approvals; • our ability to establish marketing alliances and collaborative agreements; • the cost of our internal marketing activities; and • the cost of filing, prosecuting and, if necessary, enforcing patent claims. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish. We compete against many companies and research institutions that are developing products to treat the same diseases as our drug candidates. To the extent these competitors are successful in developing and marketing such products, our future potential market share and revenues could be reduced. There are many companies, both publicly and privately held, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and academic and other research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening cancers and liver diseases. Products developed by any of these companies or institutions may demonstrate greater safety or efficacy than our drug candidates or be more widely accepted by doctors, patients or third-party payors. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development capabilities and human resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA, EMEA and other regulatory approvals. If any of our drug candidates are approved for commercial sale, we will also be competing with companies that have greater resources and experience in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. To the extent that any of our competitors succeed in developing products that are more effective, less costly or have better side effect profiles than our products, then our future potential market share could decrease, which may have a negative impact on our business. If we fail to secure adequate protection of our intellectual property or the right to use certain intellectual property of others, we may not be able to protect our product candidates and technologies from competitors. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain, maintain and protect patents, trademarks and trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. If we are unable to do so, our product candidates and technologies may not provide us with any competitive advantage. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents cannot be predicted. As a result, patents may not issue from any of our patent applications. Patents currently held by us or issued to us in the future, or to licensors from whom we have 28 licensed technology rights, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our intellectual property rights may not protect our technologies or provide commercial advantage to us. In addition, we also rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how, and we cannot be sure that others will not obtain access to or independently develop such trade secrets and know-how. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights against any infringers of our patents relating to our product candidates and technologies will be costly and time-consuming. Because of the nature of those patents, we could be required to bring lawsuits against many different entities such as hospitals or clinics. This would have the effect of increasing the costs of enforcing our rights. The pharmaceutical industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Although to date we are not aware of any intellectual property claims against us, in the future we could be forced to incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in lawsuits that are brought against us claiming that we have infringed on the patent rights of others or in asserting our patent rights in lawsuits against other parties. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or international patent authorities for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our patent applications or other parties’ patent applications. Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. The technology in our sector is developing rapidly, and our future success depends on our ability to keep abreast of technological change. We are engaged in the pharmaceutical field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in oncology, cancer therapy, medicinal pharmacology, biochemistry and other fields are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Research and discoveries by others may render some or all of our proposed programs or product candidates noncompetitive or obsolete. Our business strategy is subject to the risks inherent in the development of new product candidates using new technologies and approaches. Unforeseen problems may develop with these technologies or applications, and we may not be able to successfully address technological challenges we encounter in our research and development programs. This may result in our inability to develop commercially feasible products. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of our executive officers, and key personnel for research, development and commercialization. If we lose the services of any of these officers or key research and development personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified research and development, managerial, manufacturing and sales personnel and our ability to develop and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers. Competition for these personnel and relationships is intense and we compete with numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with universities and non-profit research organizations. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel or develop and maintain relationships with clinical researchers. The marketability of our product candidates may depend on reimbursement and reform measures in the health care industry. Our success may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of therapeutic product candidates and related treatments will be available from third-party payors such as United States and similar international government health administration authorities, private health 29 insurers, managed care programs and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party health care payors to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products and product candidates. We cannot guarantee that similar United States federal or state or similar international health care legislation and policies will not be adopted in the future or that any product candidates sought to be commercialized by us will be considered cost-effective or that adequate third-party insurance coverage will be available for us to establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures could have an adverse effect on the willingness of potential collaborators to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. We have been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. In October 2001 and May 2002, certain former shareholders of Cytovia filed complaints in California Superior Court in San Diego, against us and two of our officers, alleging fraud and negligent misrepresentation in connection with our acquisition of Cytovia. A binding arbitration proceeding with the American Arbitration Association was held in May 2003. The three-member arbitration panel rejected all of the plaintiffs’ claims, determined that we have no liability for such claims and awarded us recovery of our reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of approximately $922,000 as prevailing party in the proceedings. In December 2003, the decision was confirmed by the Superior Court, which entered a judgment to this effect. In June 2004, the plaintiffs filed an Appeal. In December 2004, the Court of Appeal reversed the judgment of the Superior Court and remanded the lawsuit to the trial court for further proceedings. In September 2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint adding state law securities claims against the defendants. In October 2005, we demurred to this amended complaint on the grounds that the complaint failed to allege any untrue statements, thus rendering each asserted cause of action deficient. The demurrer will be heard in January 2006. In the meantime, the case continues in the discovery stages. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. On September 21, 2004, plaintiff Dr. Richard Bassin, on behalf of himself and purportedly on behalf of a class of others similarly situated, filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against us, Larry G. Stambaugh, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Anthony E. Altig, our former Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer, for alleged violations of federal securities laws related to declines in our stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public and to the securities markets during the class period from November 11, 2002 to September 17, 2004, and seeking damages therefore. Thereafter two similar complaints were filed in the Southern District of California. These three actions were consolidated and in March 2005, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. No discovery has been conducted. In October 2005, the United States District Court for the Southern District of California granted our motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, but allowed plaintiffs leave to amend. It is possible that the plaintiffs will exercise their right to file an amended complaint. The cases have been tendered to our insurance carrier, which has denied coverage. We dispute the position taken by our insurance carrier and fully intend to enforce our rights under the policy. On October 7, 2004, plaintiff Jesus Putnam, purportedly on behalf of the Company, filed a derivative complaint in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of San Diego, against Larry G. Stambaugh, Anthony E. Altig, Kurt R. Gehlsen, former Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, and our entire Board of Directors for alleged breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of the California Corporations Code, all of which arise from allowing purported violations of federal securities laws related to declines in our stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public 30 and to the securities markets, and seeking damages therefore. No discovery has been conducted, and the parties have entered into a stipulation to stay the action pending resolution of a motion to dismiss the federal actions. In October 2005, plaintiff attempted to file an amended complaint to include class action allegations that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by approving the merger. In addition, the plaintiff requested that the court enjoin Maxim’s directors from completing the merger as presently proposed. The amended complaint was rejected by the court, pending the lifting of the stay. We expect the plaintiff to re-file the amended complaint once the stay is lifted, in or about December 2005. If the court were to grant plaintiff’s request for an injunction, the merger could be delayed indefinitely. The complaint has been tendered to our insurance carrier, which has denied coverage. We dispute the position taken by our insurance carrier and fully intend to enforce our rights under the policy. On May 3, 2005, plaintiff Carolina Casualty Insurance Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Larry G. Stambaugh, Anthony E. Altig, Kurt R. Gehlsen, and our entire Board of Directors, seeking a declaratory judgment from the court that our D&O insurance policy did not cover losses arising from the state and federal shareholder suits that were filed in 2004. We answered the complaint and filed counterclaims against Carolina Casualty. No discovery has been conducted and the court has issued a stay of the entire proceedings, pending certain events in the federal suit. We intend to engage in a rigorous defense against such claims. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to, among other things, make significant payments to resolve these claims, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if not covered by our insurance carrier. Further, regardless of success of the litigation, the litigation itself may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could adversely affect our business. Our stock price may be highly volatile due to external factors. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq National Market and on the Stockholmsbörsen AB. Historically, our common stock has generally experienced relatively low daily trading volumes in relation to the aggregate number of shares outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price or the liquidity of our common stock also include: • actual or potential clinical trial results relating to drug candidates under development by us or our competitors; • delays in our clinical testing and development schedules; • events or announcements relating to our collaborative relationships; • failure to enter into a collaborative partnership to conduct additional clinical studies necessary to support regulatory approval of Ceplene therapy in AML patients; • events or announcements relating to strategic transactions or our ability to successfully complete such transactions; 31 • announcements of technological innovations or new products or drug candidates by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • regulatory developments in both the United States and other countries; • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks, whether or not related to results or news regarding us or our competitors; and • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products or drug candidates under development by us or our competitors. External factors may also adversely affect the market price for our common stock. The price and liquidity of our common stock may be significantly affected by the overall trading activity and market factors on the Nasdaq National Market and the Stockholmsbörsen AB, and these factors may differ between the two markets. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter, by-laws, shareholder rights plan and under Delaware law may deter a third party from acquiring us, even though such acquisition may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our charter and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even though such acquisition may be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to: • a staggered or classified board; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; and • no right to remove directors other than for cause. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan or “poison pill”. Our stockholder rights plan is designed to protect our stockholder in the event of an unsolicited bid to acquire the Company. In general terms, the rights plan imposes a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Our stockholder rights plan could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us through an acquisition of our outstanding voting stock, even though such acquisition may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. These preferred shares are available to be used in connection with our shareholder rights plan. Any issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. 32 On September 5, 2005, we amended our stockholder rights agreement, dated as of June 15, 2000, to ensure the proposed merger with EpiCept Corporation will not trigger the rights under the stockholder rights agreement. The amendment to the stockholder rights agreement provides that the rights issued under the plan will expire immediately prior to the effective date of the proposed merger. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporations Law, an anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquiror, even though such acquisition may be beneficial to our stockholders. Issuing preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock could adversely affect holders of common stock. Our charter documents give our board of directors the authority to issue a series of preferred stock without a vote or action by our stockholders. The board also has the authority to determine the terms of preferred stock, including price, preferences and voting rights. The rights granted to holders of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. For example, a series of preferred stock may be granted the right to receive a liquidation preference—a pre-set distribution in the event of a liquidation—that would reduce the amount available for distribution to holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, common stockholders could be prevented from participating in transactions that would offer an optimal price for their shares. 