Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating Remedy’s business, one should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any significant economic downturn could result in our clients using fewer temporary employees, which could materially adversely affect the Company. Demand for temporary services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. As economic activity slows, businesses may reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their full-time employees, resulting in decreased demand for Remedy’s temporary personnel. Further, in an economic downturn, the Company may face pricing pressure from its clients and increased competition from other staffing companies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The overall slowdown in the U.S. economy in 2001 and 2002 had a significant adverse impact on the Company’s revenues. Additionally, because the Company currently derives a significant portion of its revenues from the California 11 Table of Contents market (approximately 39.4% in fiscal year 2005), an economic downturn in California would have a greater impact on the Company than if the Company had a more widely dispersed revenue base. Remedy operates in highly competitive markets with low barriers to entry, potentially limiting its ability to maintain or increase its market share or profit margins. The temporary services industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry and in recent years has been undergoing significant consolidation. The Company competes in national, regional and local markets with full service agencies and with specialized temporary service agencies. Many competitors are smaller than the Company, but have an advantage over the Company in discrete geographic markets because of their stronger local presence. Other competitors are more well-known and have greater marketing and financial resources than the Company, which among other things could enable them to maintain or increase their market share by reducing prices. The Company expects the level of competition to remain high in the future and competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating margins. Remedy’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel. Remedy depends upon its ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of its clients. Remedy must continually evaluate and upgrade its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven skills is intense and demand for these individuals is expected to remain very strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to Remedy in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to the Company. Remedy’s success will depend on its ability to recruit qualified temporary personnel and retain them. Remedy’s business may suffer if it loses its key personnel. Remedy’s operations are dependent on the continued efforts of its executive officers and senior management. Additionally, Remedy is dependent on the performance and productivity of its local managers, field personnel, franchisees and licensees. Remedy’s ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key executive officers and senior management who have acquired experience in operating a staffing service company may cause a significant disruption to Remedy’s business. Moreover, the loss of Remedy’s key local managers, field personnel or certain franchisees or licensees may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that continue to use Remedy’s staffing services based upon past direct relationships with these local managers, field personnel, franchisees and licensees. Either of these types of losses could adversely affect Remedy’s operations, including Remedy’s ability to establish and maintain customer relationships. Remedy may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect its business. Remedy is in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of other businesses. Attendant risks of these activities include possible claims by clients of employee misconduct or negligence, claims by employees of discrimination or harassment (including claims relating to actions of Remedy’s clients), claims related to the inadvertent employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel, payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims. Remedy has policies and guidelines in place to help reduce its exposure to these risks and has purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that it believes to be adequate. However, there can be no assurances that Remedy will not experience these problems in the future or that Remedy may not incur fines or other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems that could have a material adverse effect on Remedy’s business. The cost of unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation costs for Remedy’s temporary employees may rise and reduce Remedy’s profit margins. 12 Table of Contents Businesses use temporary staffing in part to shift certain employment costs and risks to personnel services companies. For example, Remedy is responsible for, and pays unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation for, its temporary employees. These costs have generally risen as a result of increased claims, general economic conditions and governmental regulation. There can be no assurance that Remedy will be able to increase the fees charged to its clients in the future to keep pace with increased costs. Price competition in the personnel services industry is intense. If Remedy is unable to maintain its margins, it expects that it may choose to stop servicing certain clients. Further, there can be no assurance that certain clients will continue to use Remedy at increased cost. There can be no assurance that Remedy will maintain its margins, and if it does not; its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. In late 2003, the Company was notified by the State of California Employment Development Department that the Company allegedly underpaid its state unemployment insurance by approximately $2,000 for the period January 1, 2003 through September 30, 2003. Based on its evaluations and after consultation with outside counsel, the Company believes that the methodology the Company used to calculate these taxes was in compliance with applicable law. The Company is currently working with outside counsel to resolve these matters. As of October 2, 2005, the Company has accrued $983 in connection with the potential settlement of these payroll-related tax matters. Remedy retains a portion of the risk under its workers’ compensation program. The estimated remaining deductible liability for all existing and incurred but not reported claims is accrued based upon actuarial methods using current claims information, as well as prior experience, and may be subsequently revised based on new developments related to such claims. Changes in the estimates underlying the claims reserve are charged or credited to earnings in the period determined, and therefore large fluctuations in any given quarter could materially adversely affect earnings in that period. The Company is contractually required to maintain irrevocable letters of credit and pledged cash and securities, currently aggregating $36,538 and $21,889, respectively, to collateralize its remaining recorded obligations under these workers’ compensation insurance contracts. Remedy expects the amount of collateral required will continue to increase. In the event that Remedy loses its current credit facilities, or cash flow and borrowing capacity under the existing credit facilities are insufficient to meet this increasing obligation, the Company will be required to seek additional sources of capital to satisfy its liquidity needs which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Remedy derives a significant portion of its revenues from licensed franchised operations. The Company derives a substantial amount of its revenues (37.4% in fiscal year 2005) from licensed franchise operations. The ownership of the Company’s licensed franchise offices is concentrated, with the ten largest licensed franchisees together accounting for 18.7% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal year 2005. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract new franchisees or that the Company will be able to retain its existing franchisees. The loss of one or more of these relationships, or other franchisees who may in the future account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is continually subject to the risk of new regulations, which could harm its business. The Company is subject to bills introduced in Congress and various state legislatures, which, if enacted, could impose conditions that could have a negative financial impact on the Company and harm its business operations. Remedy takes an active role (through its affiliations with, and participation in, various staffing industry organizations) in opposing proposed legislation adverse to its business and in informing policy makers as to the social and economic benefits of its business. However, there can be no assurance or guarantees that any of these bills (or future bills) will not be enacted, in which case, demand for the Company’s services or its financial condition, or both, may suffer. 13 Table of Contents The Company faces litigation that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary conduct of business, the Company is subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, employment matters. It is possible that the Company may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of its insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Company could also incur substantial legal costs, and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from the business (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 