Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results or those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including the risk factors identified below and other factors of which we may or may not yet be aware. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are difficult to forecast, and there are a number of factors outside of our control, including: · purchasing cycles of commercial and public sector customers; · the level of corporate investment in new IT-related capital equipment; · more manufacturers going direct; · industry announcements of new products or upgrades; · industry consolidation and increased competition; · cost of compliance with new legal and regulatory requirements; · general economic conditions; and · variability of vendor programs. Based on those and other risks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the profitability we have experienced going forward. We experience variability in our net sales and net income on a quarterly basis. There is no assurance that we will sustain our current sales or income levels. Sales and income may decline for any number of reasons, including: · a decline in corporate profits leading to a change in corporate investment in IT-related equipment; · increased competition; · more manufacturers going direct; · changes in customers’ buying habits; · the loss of significant customers; · changes in the selection of products available for resale; or · general economic conditions. A decline in sales levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our narrow gross margins magnify the impact of variations in our operating costs. There is intense price competition and pressure on profit margins in the computer products industry. A number of manufacturers also provide their products directly to customers. Various other factors also may create downward pressure on our gross margins, such as the quarter-to-quarter variability in vendor programs and an increasing proportion of sales to enterprise, public sector or other competitive bid accounts on which margins could be lower. If we are unable to maintain or improve gross margins in the future, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our increased investments in hiring, retaining and productivity of our sales force may not improve our profitability or result in expanded market share. We ended 2007 with 342 account executives, flat compared to 2006. We expect to continue to hire account executives, but at a lower rate of growth due to corporate initiatives to lower turnover thus reducing hiring requirements in 2008. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to hire to our expected levels, or recruit the quality individuals that we hope to hire, or that the individuals hired will remain employed for an extended period of time, or that we will not lose existing account executives. The productivity of account executives has historically been closely correlated with tenure. Even if we do retain our account executives, there are no assurances that they will become productive at historical levels. Additionally, there are no assurances that the locations of our call centers will continue to attract qualified account executives, or that we will be able to remotely manage and retain the new account executives. Certain of our key vendors provide us with incentives and other assistance, and any future decline in these incentives and other assistance could materially harm our profit margins and operating results. We have a variety of relationships with our vendors that in the past have contributed significantly to profit margins. For example, certain product manufacturers and distributors provide us with incentives in the form of rebates, volume incentive rebates, cash discounts and trade allowances. Our vendors continue to redefined current programs and there are no assurances that we will attain the level of vendor support in the future that we have obtained in the past. In addition, many of our vendors provide us with cooperative advertising funds, which reimburse us for expenses associated with specific forms of advertising. Industry-wide, the trend has been for manufacturers, distributors and vendors to reduce these incentives and programs. We believe that the 2008 incentives may decline as a percentage of sales compared with historical amounts due to changes in available programs and targets. If these forms of vendor support significantly decline, or if we are otherwise unable to take advantage of continuing vendor support programs, or if we fail to manage the complexity of these programs, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be adversely affected. We are controlled by a principal stockholder. Firoz H. Lalji, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 51% of the outstanding shares of Zones common stock, excluding shares that he may acquire upon exercise of stock options that he holds. The voting power of these shares enables Mr. Lalji to significantly influence our affairs and the vote on corporate matters to be decided by our shareholders, including the outcome of elections of directors. This effective voting control may preclude other shareholders from being able to influence shareholder votes and could impede potential merger transactions or block changes to our articles of incorporation or bylaws, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may lose potential revenue and competitive advantage if we lose our certification as a Minority Business Enterprise. We are certified as a Minority Business Enterprise (“MBE”) based on Mr. Lalji’s maintenance of voting control of our outstanding common stock. A decrease in Mr. Lalji’s level of voting power through the issuance of additional equity capital or through a business combination transaction could cause us to lose our MBE certification. Our MBE certification allows us to compete for certain sales opportunities for which we otherwise may not be able to compete and gives us an advantage in other sales opportunities. Although we are unable to quantify the portion of our revenue that we receive as a result of our MBE certification, we believe a loss of our MBE certification would cause us to lose potential revenue and competitive advantage in certain sales opportunities and would have an adverse effect on our ability to retain certain customers, compete for certain sales opportunities and our financial performance. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, which include some of our largest vendors. The computer products industry is highly competitive. We compete with other national direct marketers, including CDW Corporation, Insight Enterprises, Inc. and PC Connection, Inc. We also compete with product manufacturers, such as Apple, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo, which sell directly to end-users, in addition to competing with specialty computer retailers, computer and general merchandise superstores, and consumer electronic and office supply stores. Many of our competitors compete principally on the basis of price and have lower costs. We believe that competition may intensify in the future due to market conditions and consolidation. In the future, we may face fewer, but larger or better-financed competitors. Additional competition may also arise if other methods of distribution emerge in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing competitors or new competitors that may enter the market, or that our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations will not be adversely affected by intensified competition. 10 Table of Contents We are exposed to inventory obsolescence due to the rapid technological changes occurring in the personal computer industry. The computer industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introductions of new products and product enhancements. To satisfy customer demand and obtain greater purchase discounts, we may be required to carry significant inventory levels of certain products, which would subject us to increased risk of inventory obsolescence. We participate in first-to-market and end-of-lifecycle purchase opportunities, both of which carry the risk of inventory obsolescence. Special purchase products are sometimes acquired without return privileges, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to such products. Within the industry, vendors are becoming increasingly restrictive in guaranteeing return privileges. While we seek to reduce our inventory exposure through a variety of inventory control procedures and policies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to obsolete inventory. We may not be able to maintain existing or build new vendor relationships, which may affect our ability to offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices and negatively impact our results of operations. We acquire products directly from manufacturers, such as Apple, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo, as well as from distributors such as Ingram Micro, Synnex, Tech Data and others. Certain hardware manufacturers limit the number of product units available to DMRs. Substantially all of our contracts and arrangements with vendors are terminable without notice or upon short notice. If we do not maintain our existing relationships or build new relationships with vendors on acceptable terms, including favorable product pricing and vendor consideration, we may not be able to offer a broad selection of products or continue to offer products at competitive prices. Termination, interruption or contraction of our relationships with our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud. We will continue to document and test our internal control procedures on an ongoing basis in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and a report by an independent registered public accounting firm addressing such assessments if applicable. During the course of our testing we may from time to time identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate. In addition, if we fail to achieve or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We face many uncertainties relating to the collection of state sales and use tax. We collect and remit sales and use taxes in states in which we have voluntarily registered and/or have a physical presence. Various states have sought to require the collection of state and local sales taxes on products shipped to the taxing jurisdiction’s residents by DMRs. The United States Supreme Court held in 1992 that it is unconstitutional for a state to impose sales or use tax collection obligations on an out-of-state company whose contacts with the state were limited to the distribution of catalogs and other advertising materials through the mail and the subsequent delivery of purchased goods by United States mail or by common carrier. We cannot predict the level of contact, including electronic commerce and Internet activity, which might give rise to future or past tax collection obligations based on that Supreme Court case. Many states aggressively pursue out-of-state businesses, and legislation that would expand the ability of states to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state businesses has been introduced in Congress on many occasions. A change in the law could require us to collect sales taxes or similar taxes on sales in states in which we have no presence and could potentially subject us to a liability for prior year sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on our distribution centers and certain distributors to meet the product needs of our customers. We operate warehouse and distribution centers in Bensenville, Illinois and in Seattle, Washington. There are no assurances that our warehouse locations will best support our customer base. Additionally, certain distributors participate in our logistics operations through electronic data interchange. Failure to develop and maintain relationships with these and other vendors would limit our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are heavily dependent on commercial delivery services. We generally ship our products to customers by DHL, Eagle, FedEx, United Parcel Service and other commercial delivery services and invoice customers for delivery charges. If we are unable to pass on to our customers future increases in the cost of commercial delivery services, our profitability could be adversely affected. Additionally, strikes or other service interruptions by such shippers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. Although our success will depend on personnel in all areas of our business, there are certain individuals that play key roles within the organization. Loss of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We may be impacted by the loss of a major customer. From time to time we have customers that represent more than 10% of total sales. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no customers that individually represented more than 10% of total net sales. In 2007, we had a customer that represented 9.9% of total sales. The loss of business with any major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Our systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our operations are dependent on the reliability of information, telecommunication and other systems, which are used for sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, customer service and general accounting functions. Interruption of our information systems, Internet or telecommunication systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Privacy concerns with respect to list development and maintenance may materially adversely affect our business. If third parties or our team members are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. We also mail catalogs and send electronic messages to names in our proprietary customer database and to potential customers whose names we obtain from rented or exchanged mailing lists. World-wide public concern regarding personal privacy has subjected the rental and use of customer mailing lists and other customer information to increased scrutiny. Any domestic or foreign legislation enacted limiting or prohibiting these practices could negatively affect our business. Our stock price may be volatile. There is relatively limited trading of our stock in the public markets, and this may impose significant practical limitations on any shareholder’s ability to achieve liquidity at any particular quoted price. Efforts to sell significant amounts of our stock on the open market may precipitate significant declines in the prices quoted by market makers. The limitation on shareholder liquidity resulting from this relatively thin trading volume could be exacerbated if our stock were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market imposes a requirement for continued listing that the value of shares publicly held, excluding those held by directors, officers and beneficial owners, exceed certain minimums. A potential future delisting of our common stock could result in significantly reduced volume of our common stock traded, more limited press coverage, reduced interest by investors in the common stock, adverse effects on the trading market, downward pressure on the price for and liquidity of our stock, and reduced ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. 