ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively as we pursue our strategy, it could negatively affect our results of operations We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe that we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; 12 Table of Contents · our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; · the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; · entry into new markets where we lack experience; · the introduction of new products and services into our business; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where it operates Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Any adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 82% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of this amount, approximately 67% were commercial real estate loans, 12% were residential real estate loans and 18% were construction and development loans. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders, developers and individuals. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $168.6 million of our loan portfolio represents loans for construction and vacant land. Land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential or commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. In February 2008, a $13.5 million commercial land development loan matured and was placed on nonaccrual because the borrowers were unable to service the debt. Non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase further and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may negatively impact our capital and earnings. 13 Table of Contents If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Florida, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Additionally, the availability of property insurance, including windstorm and flood insurance, and the significant increases in the cost thereof in the Florida market may negatively affect borrowers’ abilities to repay existing loans and the abilities of potential borrowers to qualify for new loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Banks often secure their loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2007, approximately 82% of the Banks’ loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to residential mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2007, our non performing loans have increased significantly to $16.1 million, or 1.4% of our loan portfolio. Furthermore, the housing and residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we may face increased delinquencies and non-performing assets if builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Banks to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Banks’ earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our indirect lending program has a limited operating history and, as a result, the financial performance to date of this program may not be a reliable indicator of whether this business will be successful. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers primarily located in Southwest Florida. We began this program in 2002 and as of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $117 million of indirect loans outstanding. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, they involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are secured, they are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. Due to the economic slowdown in Southwest Florida, we are currently experiencing significantly higher delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio. If the economy continues to contract, we may continue to experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs. The market value of our debt securities may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in market value is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principals, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2007, we owned collateralized debt obligations with a historical cost of $10.0 million which were determined to be other than temporarily impaired. Accordingly, we wrote these securities down to their estimated fair value of $6.1 million. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of these and other securities. If such decline is determined to be other than temporary, we will write them down through a charge to earnings to their then current fair value. Our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. Our primary strategy for building market share in Southwest Florida is based on establishing new branches. We currently plan to open one additional branch each year in 2008 and 2009. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. If we are unable to increase our share of deposits in our markets, we may accept out of market and brokered deposits, the costs of which may be higher than expected. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive service areas. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market or brokered deposits. At times, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits exceeds the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, the rapid growth of recent years may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally stable interest rate environment or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our continued growth and current level of earnings may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate adjustments. As a financial institution, our earnings are significantly dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affect us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the sub-prime, mortgage, credit and liquidity in financial markets and increasing concerns about recessionary trends, the Federal Reserve recently has taken action on five occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 225 basis points since September 2007, which likely will reduce our net interest income during the first quarter of 2008 and the foreseeable future. This reduction in net interest income likely will be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our markets, which requires us to offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers on loans and to our other customers on deposits, and to rely upon out-of-market funding sources. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, in 2008, we expect to have continued margin pressure given these interest rate reductions, along with elevated levels of non-performing assets. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amounts or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our borrowing agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The various federal and state regulatory agencies have advised that they may require enhanced credit monitoring and at times set limits or restrictions on certain lending activities based upon concentrations of risk identified (for example, concentrations of commercial real estate loans exceeding 300% of capital). We cannot assure compliance with any possible future requirements will not adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or grow at the rates we desire. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate, or CRE, is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 55% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans. The banking regulators are more closely scrutinizing CRE lending and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement more rigorous underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. 17 Table of Contents We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Future capital needs could result in dilution of shareholders’ investments. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of current shareholders in the Company and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock is less liquid and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The NASDAQ National Market during 2007 was approximately 20,444 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital and is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Banks and cash available at the holding company. The ability of the Banks to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to state banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Based on the level of undistributed earnings of TIB Bank for the prior two years, declaration of dividends by TIB Bank, during 2008, would likely require regulatory approval. The Bank of Venice has no retained earnings available for dividends. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $33 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. 18 Table of Contents We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, which are senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, common stock, warrants, or other securities convertible into common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any written comments during 2007 from the Commission staff regarding our periodic and current reports under the Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved from any prior period. 19 Table of Contents 