Item 1A. Risk Factors In determining whether to invest in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: 22 Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our proposed acquisition of North Penn Bancorp, Inc. On December 14, 2010, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with North Penn Bancorp, Inc. (“North Penn”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, North Penn Bank, pursuant to which North Penn will merge with and into the Company and immediately thereafter, North Penn Bank will merge with and into the Bank. The acquisition of North Penn is anticipated to strengthen our market position in Monroe County and allow us to better serve our customers in Luzerne County The success of this transaction, however, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and North Penn Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of North Penn Bank nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Norwood Financial Corp. and North Penn have operated and, until the completion of the transactions, will continue to operate, independently. Certain North Penn employees may not be employed by us after the transaction. In addition, North Penn employees that we wish to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the acquisition, which could delay or disrupt the integration process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of North Penn’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our success will depend upon our ability to effectively manage our future growth. We believe that we have in place the management and systems, including data processing systems, internal controls and a strong credit culture, to support continued growth. However, our continued growth and profitability depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage such growth effectively, to attract and retain skilled employees and to maintain adequate internal controls and a strong credit culture. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our expansion, and the failure to do so would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. 23 As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $5,616,000 which represented 1.57% of outstanding loans. At such date, we had seventeen nonperforming loans totaling $4.1 million and ten impaired loans totaling $14.7 million. We actively manage our nonperforming loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. Commercial loans are often larger and may involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans may be more sensitive than other types of loans due to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Most of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which is subject to declines in value. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 86% of our loans, had real estate as a primary, secondary or tertiary component of collateral. In addition, approximately 42% of our securities portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities issued by either Fannie Mae (FNMA), Freddie Mac (FHLMC) or Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges in respect of our investment securities portfolio and restricted stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $50.7 million in investments, including mortgage-backed securities on which we had unrealized losses of $1.2 million. In addition, we had $3.4 million of restricted stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh, which has suspended the payment of dividends and repurchases of excess capital stock. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investments 24 and FHLB stock if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, or adverse actions by regulators could have a negative effect on the value of our investments and mortgage backed securities. If an impairment charge is significant enough to result in a loss for the period, it could affect the ability of our bank subsidiary to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009 and we may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The large number of bank failures has significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits below the designated reserve ratio. To restore the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule, which significantly raised deposit insurance premiums on all insured banks. The FDIC also imposed a five basis point special assessment payable September 30, 2009 on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. In order to increase the funds available to the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay their federal deposit insurance assessments through 2012. The prepayment was based on the institution’s assessment base and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009 assuming 5% annual growth in deposits and a three basis point increase in the assessment rate during years 2011 and 2012. The prepayment was recorded on the balance sheet as a non-earning prepaid expense asset against which future quarterly assessments will be charged. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires the FDIC to achieve a higher reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund and significantly changes the methodology for calculating assessments. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recently enacted financial reform legislation could substantially increase our compliance burden and costs and necessitate changes in the conduct of our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, among others, are expected to impact our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively: 25 · The imposition of capital requirements on Norwood Financial Corp. that are no less stringent than those applicable to Wayne Bank, which may reduce our flexibility in raising capital; · Changes in methodologies for calculating deposit insurance premiums and increases in required deposit insurance fund reserve levels, which could increase our deposit insurance expense; · Elimination of restrictions on interstate branching, which could allow more competitors to enter our market area; and · Imposition of comprehensive, new consumer protection requirements, which could substantially increase our compliance burden and potentially expose us to new liabilities. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorized Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 26 Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have recently experienced volatility and disruption which has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility return, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and investments and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is geographically concentrated and is subject to regional economic factors that could have an adverse impact on our business. Substantially all of our business is with customers in our market area of Northeastern Pennsylvania. Most of our customers are consumers and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in our markets could adversely affect our borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds, and consequently our financial condition and performance. Additionally, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral, most of which is located in Northeastern Pennsylvania. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of 27 such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. The loss of senior executive officers and certain other key personnel could hurt our business. Our success depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Lewis J. Critelli, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have an employment agreement with non-compete provisions with Mr. Critelli, the existence of such agreement does not assure that we will retain his services. The unexpected loss of Mr. Critelli could have a material adverse effect on our operations. From time to time, we also need to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending officers and branch managers. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting, recruiting and retaining the necessary skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel for the successful operation of our existing lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions or to support the expansion of the functions necessary for our future growth. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2010, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $10.6 million, or 15% of our capital plus allowance for loan losses. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which may adversely impact your ability to sell your shares and the price you receive for your shares. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, there has been limited trading activity in our stock and an active trading market is not expected to develop. This means that there may be limited liquidity for our common stock, which may make it difficult to buy or sell our common stock, may negatively affect the price of our common stock and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. There are restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Although we have paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis since 1996, and the Bank has paid dividends for many previous years, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant and will be subject to applicable federal and state laws that impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. 28 Our management and significant shareholders control a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise substantial control over our affairs. As of December 31, 2010, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 212,374 shares, or approximately 7.4% of our common stock, including options to purchase 98,578 shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $16.98 to $31.50 per share. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers and other significant shareholders, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the ownership and voting power of our shareholders and the book value of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock of which 2,768,804 shares are currently outstanding and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no shares are outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other stockholders. In addition, a total of 250,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the Norwood Financial Corp 2006 Stock Option Plan, of which 144,645 were issued as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, options to purchase a total of 161,639 shares were exercisable and had exercise prices ranging from $16.98 to $31.50. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors. Our articles of incorporation require the approval of 80% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation may require the disgorgement of profits realized by any person who attempts to acquire control of the Company. As a Pennsylvania corporation with a class of securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is governed by certain provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law that, inter alia, permit the disparate treatment of certain shareholders; prohibit calls of special meetings of shareholders; require unanimous written consent for shareholder action in lieu of a meeting; require shareholder approval for certain transactions in which a shareholder has an interest; and impose additional requirements on business combinations with persons who are the beneficial owners of more than 20% of the Company’s stock. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a competitive market which could constrain our future growth and profitability. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as international banking 29 services, which we do not offer. Moreover, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. We are required to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation which can adversely affect our business. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board (the “FRB”), “FDIC” and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitability. In addition, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such change may have on our future business and earnings prospects. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Interest rates affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful 30 in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. As a public company, we are subject to numerous reporting requirements that are currently evolving and could substantially increase our operating expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC has promulgated new rules covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has significantly increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. In addition, compliance with the requirements has taken a significant amount of management’s and the Board of Directors’ time and resources. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. If we are ever unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for any future year-ends as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 