ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section, in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks that we face. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. Changes in U.S. and global economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our business Our business is directly affected by the performance of our clients and general economic conditions. Turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business. There is evidence that this is affecting demand for some of our services. In substantially all of our client programs, we generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our employees devote to our clients’ customers. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client program is dependent upon consumers’ interest in and use of our client’s products and/or services, which may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. Our clients may not be able to market or develop products and services that require their customers to use our services, especially as a result of the downturn in the U.S. and worldwide economy. Furthermore, a decline in our clients’ business or performance, including possible client bankruptcies, could impair their ability to pay for our services. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if any of our major clients were unable or unwilling, for any reason, to pay for our services. 7 A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more of our clients could cause a reduction in our revenue and operating results We rely on strategic, long-term relationships with large, global companies in targeted industries. As a result, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from relatively few clients. Our five largest clients collectively represented 39% of revenue in 2012 and 37% of revenue in 2011. Our ten largest clients represented 57% of revenue in 2012 and 56% of revenue in 2011. We had one client that represented 10% of our revenue in 2012. We believe that a substantial portion of our total revenue will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of our clients in the future. The contracts with our five largest clients expire between 2014 and 2016. We cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to renew any of these contracts or, if renewed, that new contracts will be on terms as favorable as the existing contracts. The volumes and profit margins of our most significant programs may decline and we may not be able to replace such clients or programs with clients or programs that generate comparable revenue and profits. The loss of all or part of a major client’s business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Client consolidations could result in a loss of clients or contract concessions that would adversely affect our operating results We serve clients in targeted industries that have historically experienced a significant level of consolidation. If one of our clients is acquired by another company (including another one of our clients), provisions in certain of our contracts allow these clients to cancel or renegotiate their contracts, or to seek contract concessions. Such consolidations may result in the termination or phasing out of an existing client contract, volume discounts and other contract concessions that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our concentration of business activities in certain geographic areas subjects us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition We have delivery centers in many countries, and some business activities may be concentrated in certain geographic areas, including the Philippines and Latin America. As a result, we are subject to risks that may interrupt or limit our ability to operate our delivery centers or increase the cost of operating in these geographic areas, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: · security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability or terrorist activity; · health concerns; · natural disasters; · inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers; · restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; · differing employment practices, prevailing wage rates and labor issues; · local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; and · regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ among jurisdictions. 8 We may be disproportionately exposed to interruption of or limitations to the operation of our business or increases in operating costs in these geographic areas due to these or other factors. As a result, any interruption or limitation of, or increase in costs related to, our operations in these geographic areas could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation, penalties and cause us to lose clients We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized access or disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, malfeasance, fraud, misappropriation, or other disruptions could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to, or destruction of, data through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with laws, including changes to such laws, could adversely affect our results of operations Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, primarily relating to confidential client and customer data and customer communications. Costs of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign existing and future regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. If our businesses fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. In the U.S., some of our services must comply with various federal and state regulations regarding the method of placing outbound telephone calls. Lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. In addition, we could incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations related to the portions of our clients’ businesses that are transferred to us. Our failure to deliver uninterrupted service to our clients could cause a reduction in our revenue and operating results Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our facilities, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, terrorist or cyber attacks, sabotage, telecommunications interruption or failure, labor shortages, weather conditions, natural disasters and other similar events. Additionally, severe weather can cause our employees to miss work and interrupt the delivery of our services, resulting in a loss of revenue. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our locations (including our corporate headquarters building), our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages or face the suspension or loss of a client’s business. Further, the impacts associated with global climate change, such as rising sea levels or increased and intensified storm activity, may cause increased business interruptions or may require the relocation of our facilities located in low-lying coastal areas. The failure to deliver uninterrupted service to our clients could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions Major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security that affect our wireline and GigaPOP networks, including transport facilities, communications switches, routers, or other equipment or third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to disrupting service and operations, these events could require significant resources and result in a loss of clients or impair our ability to attract new clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results depend on our capacity utilization, in particular our ability to forecast our clients’ customer demand and make corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and operating expenses Our delivery center utilization rates have a substantial and direct effect on our profitability, and we may not achieve desired utilization rates. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: · Our ability to maintain and increase capacity in each of our delivery centers during peak and non-peak hours; · Our ability to predict our clients’ customer demand for our services and thereby to make corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and other operating expenditures in each of our delivery center locations; · Our ability to hire and assimilate new employees and manage employee turnover; and · Our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other non-chargeable activities. However, because the majority of our business is inbound from our clients’ customer-initiated encounters, we have significantly higher utilization during peak (weekday) periods than during off-peak (night and weekend) periods. We have experienced periods of idle capacity, particularly in our multi-client delivery centers. Historically, we experience idle peak period capacity upon opening a new delivery center or termination or completion of a large client program. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain desired delivery center capacity utilization. As a result of the fixed costs associated with each delivery center, quarterly variations in client volumes, many of which are outside our control, can have a material adverse effect on our utilization rates. If our utilization rates are below expectations in any given period, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for that period could be adversely affected. Many of our contracts utilize performance pricing that link some of our fees to the attainment of various performance criteria, which could increase the variability of our revenue and operating margin A majority of our contracts include performance clauses that condition some of our fees on the achievement of agreed-upon performance criteria. These performance criteria can be complex and often depend in some measure on actual levels of business activity. If we fail to satisfy these criteria, it could reduce our revenue under the contracts and operating margin. Our contracts provide for early termination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows Most of our contracts do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenue and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of a program. Our contracts generally enable the clients to terminate the contract or reduce customer interaction volumes. This could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows if our larger contracts are terminated prior to the end of those contracts. 10 We may not be able to offset increased costs with increased service fees under long-term contracts Some of our larger long-term contracts allow us to increase our service fees if and to the extent certain cost or price indices increase. The majority of our expenses are payroll and payroll-related, which includes healthcare costs. Over the past several years, payroll costs, including healthcare costs, have increased at a rate much greater than that of general cost or price indices. Increases in our service fees that are based upon increases in cost or price indices may not fully compensate us for increases in labor and other costs incurred in providing services. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to recover increases in our costs through increased service fees. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by risks associated with international operations and expansion A component of our growth strategy is continued international expansion. There are risks inherent with conducting international business, including but not limited to: · Management of personnel overseas; · Longer payment cycles and/or difficulties in accounts receivable collections; · Foreign currency exchange rates; · Difficulties in complying with foreign laws; · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · Political and social instability, as demonstrated by terrorist threats, regime change, increasing tension in the Middle East and other regions, and the resulting need for enhanced security measures; and · Potentially adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage our international operations successfully. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency exchange risk We serve an increasing number of our clients from delivery centers in other countries such as Argentina, Canada, Costa Rica, Mexico, and the Philippines. Contracts with these clients are typically priced, invoiced, and paid in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies while the costs incurred to operate these delivery centers are denominated in the functional currency of the applicable operating subsidiary. Therefore, fluctuations between the currencies of the contracting and operating subsidiary present foreign currency exchange risks. In addition, because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and approximately 25% of our revenue is derived from contracts denominated in other currencies, our results of operations and revenue could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies. 11 While we enter into forward and option contracts (collars) to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, the foreign exchange exposure between the contracting and operating subsidiaries is not hedged 100%. Since the operating subsidiary assumes the foreign exchange exposure, its operating margins could decrease if the operating subsidiary’s currency strengthens against the contracting subsidiary’s currency. For example, our operating subsidiaries are at risk if their functional currency strengthens against the contracting subsidiary’s currency (typically the U.S. dollar). If the U.S. dollar devalues against the operating subsidiaries’ functional currency, the financial results of those operating subsidiaries and TeleTech (upon consolidation) will be negatively affected. While our hedging strategy is structured to offset a portion of these foreign currency changes, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully hedge this foreign currency exchange risk or that the value of the U.S. dollar will not materially weaken. If we fail to manage our foreign currency exchange risk, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are subject to counterparty credit risk and market risk with respect to financial transactions with our financial institutions The global economic and credit crisis weakened the creditworthiness of many financial institutions, and in some circumstances caused previously financially solvent financial institutions to file for bankruptcy. The counterparties to our hedge transactions are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to risks that these counterparties become insolvent and fail to perform their financial obligations under these hedge transactions. Our hedging exposure to counterparty credit risk is not secured by any collateral. If one or more of the counterparties to one or more of our hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. Our primary exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, our credit exposure will depend on foreign exchange rate movements relative to the contracted foreign exchange rate and whether any gains result that are not realized due to a counterparty default. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of our counterparties. We also have a revolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions, and interest rate swaps with counterparty banks. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of these financial and other institutions and their ability to fund their obligations when required under our agreements. Our credit facility contains covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business Our credit facility contains operating and financial restrictions and covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. Complying with these covenant restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities, including incurring additional indebtedness, making certain investments and capital expenditures, acquisitions, selling certain assets, stock repurchases, payment of existing obligations, or replenishment of cash reserves. As a result of these covenant restrictions, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the failure to comply with these covenants may result in a default under our credit facility. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet the financial covenants under our debt agreements or, in the event of noncompliance, will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from the lenders. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities, we cannot assure you that the assets securing such indebtedness would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. 12 Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements in which violations or changes could threaten our ability to continue to operate Because we provide services to our clients’ customers, who reside in 90 countries, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Changes in U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations may adversely affect the sale of our services, including expansion of overseas operations. Changes in these regulations and requirements, or new restrictive regulations and requirements, may slow the growth of our services or require us to incur substantial costs. Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions, such as preventing us from using offshore resources to provide our services, or could impose additional taxes on the provision of our services and solutions. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets. Closing or consolidating underutilized delivery centers can adversely impact our results of operations From time to time we may consolidate or close underutilized or under-performing delivery centers in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. In the event we close delivery centers in the future, we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our financial results and projections may be impacted by our ability to maintain and find new locations for our delivery centers in countries with stable wage rates Our industry is labor-intensive and the majority of our operating costs relate to wages, employee benefits and employment taxes. As a result, our future growth is dependent upon our ability to find cost-effective locations in which to operate, both domestically and internationally. Some of our delivery centers are located in countries that have experienced rising standards of living, which may in turn require us to increase employee wages. In addition, approximately 5,625 employees outside the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we anticipate that the terms of agreements will not impact us in a manner materially different than other companies located in these countries, we may not be able to pass increased labor costs on to our clients. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to find cost-effective locations. Any increases in labor costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on our senior management and key personnel and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified professionals Our future operating results depend to a large extent upon the continued contributions of key senior managers and personnel. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. However, there is significant competition for employees with the requisite level of experience and qualifications. If we cannot attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, we may be unable to compete effectively and our growth may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 13 If we fail to recruit, hire, train and retain key qualified employees, our business will be adversely affected Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel. Demand for qualified management and technical professionals conversant in multiple languages, including English, and/or certain technologies may exceed supply, as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving technologies. We generally experience high employee turnover and are continuously required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. In addition, certain delivery centers are located in geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, which could make it more costly to hire qualified personnel. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training, or retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The customer experience markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: · Initiate, develop and maintain new client relationships; · Maintain and expand existing client programs; · Staff and equip suitable delivery center facilities in a timely manner; · Differentiate our services from our competitors through the use of technologies and products that are not outdated or obsolete; and · Develop new solutions and enhance existing solutions we provide to our clients. Moreover, we compete with a variety of companies with respect to our offerings, including: · Large multinational providers, including the service arms of large global technology providers; · Offshore service providers in lower-cost locations that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices; · Niche solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area; and · Most importantly, the in-house operations of clients or potential clients. Because our primary competitors are the in-house operations of existing or potential clients, our performance and growth could be adversely affected if our existing or potential clients decide to provide in-house customer experience services they currently outsource, or retain or increase their in-house customer experience services and product support capabilities. In addition, competitive pressures from current or future competitors also could cause our services to lose market acceptance or put downward pressure on the prices we charge for our services and on our operating margins. If we are unable to provide our clients with superior services and solutions at competitive prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 14 We may not be able to develop our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement systems technology and outsourcing services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry developments and client needs. Our continued growth and future profitability will be highly dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to develop new technologies that: · Expand our existing solutions and offerings; · Achieve cost efficiencies in our existing delivery center operations; and · Introduce new solutions that leverage and respond to changing technological developments. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. Our integration of new technologies may not achieve their intended cost reductions and services and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our service offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to maintain our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption to the Company’s supply chain for the Customer Technology Services segment could adversely affect our business Damage or disruption to the suppliers for the Company’s Customer Technology Services segment or to the Company’s distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, or other reasons could impair the Customer Technology Services Segment’s ability to sell its products and services. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business or financial results. The products and services utilized by us and our suppliers may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others Some of our products and services use intellectual property that we own. We also purchase products and services from suppliers, including device suppliers and service providers that incorporate or utilize intellectual property. We and some of our suppliers and service providers have received, and may receive in the future, assertions and claims from third parties that the products of software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. These claims and assertions also could subject us to costly litigation and significant liabilities for damages or royalty payments, or require us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services. Difficulties in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property and contractual rights may have an adverse affect business and operations Some of the intellectual property developed by us may not receive favorable treatment from the United States Patent and Trademark Office or similar foreign intellectual property adjudication and registration agencies. Intellectual property for which we have a patent pending status may not be granted a patent or may be determined to have been filed later than similar technologies products and services or may be determined to materially conflict with similar technologies, products and services. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our contractual and intellectual property rights, among other rights. All of these factors could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 If we fail to integrate businesses and assets that we may acquire through joint ventures or acquisitions, we may lose clients and our liquidity, capital resources and profitability may be adversely affected We may pursue strategic acquisitions of companies or strategic alliances in the form of joint ventures and partnerships to obtain services, technologies, industry specializations, or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. Acquisitions and joint ventures often involve a number of special risks, including the following: · We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired software, operations and personnel and our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; · We may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired technology and rights into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · The businesses or assets we acquire may fail to achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated, causing us to incur additional debt to fund operations and to impair the assets recorded through our acquisitions; · We may assume liabilities associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products or services; · We may face operational or other limitations on integrating businesses if we do not have a majority or controlling position; · Our resources may be diverted in asserting and defending our legal rights or in disputes with contract counterparties, and we may ultimately be liable for contingent and other liabilities, not previously disclosed to us, of the companies that we acquire; · Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business and dilute our ownership interest; · Acquisitions may result in litigation from sellers, former employees or third parties; and · Due diligence may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, ownership rights and legal contingencies, among other matters. Any of the factors identified above could have a material adverse effect on our returns on invested capital, our business and on the market value of our common stock. The growth of our operations could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer We have made and may continue to plan and execute acquisitions and take other actions to grow our business. We can provide no assurance that such actions will be undertaken or completed in their entirety as planned. In addition to the challenges and risks relating to the integration of the acquired businesses, products, or technologies, potential future growth and the diversion of management’s time and resources will continue to place a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources. We expect that we will need to continually evaluate and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to expand, train and manage our workforce worldwide. We can provide no assurances that we will manage acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue dilutive equity or incur debt, contingent liabilities, additional amortization charges from intangible assets, asset impairment charges, or impairment charges for in-process research and development and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 We face risks related to health epidemics, which could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations Our business could be materially and adversely affected by health epidemics, including, but not limited to, outbreaks of the H1N1 influenza virus (commonly known as the “swine flu”), the avian flu, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”). Outbreaks of SARS in 2003 and 2004 and the avian flu in 2006, 2007 and 2008 alarmed people around the world, raising issues pertaining to health and travel and undermining confidence in the world’s economy. More recently, cases of the H1N1 virus have been identified internationally, including confirmed human outbreaks and deaths. Any prolonged epidemic of the H1N1 virus, avian flu, SARS, or other contagious infection in the markets in which we do business may result in worker absences, lower asset utilization rates, voluntary closure of our offices and delivery centers, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our business. Moreover, health epidemics may force local health and government authorities to mandate the closure of our offices and delivery centers. Any prolonged or widespread health epidemic could severely disrupt our business operations, result in a significant decrease in demand for our services, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business We enter into forward and option contracts to hedge against the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations. The United States Congress has passed, and the President has signed into law, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Financial Reform Act”). The Financial Reform Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign currency and interest rate hedging transactions. The Financial Reform Act requires the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission to promulgate rules relating to the Financial Reform Act. Until the rules relating to the Financial Reform Act are established, we do not know how these regulations will affect us. The rules adopted by the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission may in the future impact our flexibility to execute strategic hedges to reduce foreign exchange and interest rate uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. In addition, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties will be required to comply with the Financial Reform Act’s new requirements. It is possible that the costs of such compliance will be passed on to customers such as ourselves. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders Kenneth D. Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 60.5% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Tuchman could exercise control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including the election of our entire Board of Directors. Therefore, a change in control of our company could not be effected without his approval. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud Our management, including our CEO and CFO, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. While the design of any system of controls is to provide reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of disclosure controls, such design is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and such assumptions, while reasonable, may not take into account all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. 17 Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in this Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future discover, areas of internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 