Risk Factors There are a number of important factors that could our actual results to differ materially from historical results or those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including the risk factors identified below and other factors of which we may or may not yet be aware. No Assurance of Future Profitability. Our operating results are difficult to forecast, and external factors affecting sales and operating results are: · purchasing cycles of commercial and public sector customers; · the level of corporate investment in new IT-related capital equipment; · industry announcements of new products or upgrades; · industry consolidation; · cost of compliance with new legal and regulatory requirements; and · general economic conditions. We have taken a number of steps to reduce fixed costs, such as reducing redundant headcount. We intend to continue exploring additional means of cost reduction, but there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify or achieve additional cost savings or to maintain profitability going forward. No Assurance as to Sales Levels. There is no assurance that we will sustain our current sales levels. Sales may decline for any number of reasons, such as: · a decline in corporate profits leading to a change in corporate investment in IT-related equipment; · increased competition; · more manufacturers going direct; · changes in customers’ buying habits; · the loss of significant customers; · changes in the selection of products available for resale; or · general economic conditions. A decline in sales levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Pressure on Margins. There is intense price competition and pressure on profit margins in the computer products industry. An increasing number of manufacturers are providing their products direct to customers. Various other factors also may create downward pressure on our gross margins, such as shifts in vendor programs and an increasing proportion of sales to enterprise, public sector or other competitive bid accounts on which margins could be lower. If we are unable to maintain or improve gross margins in the future, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Account Executive Hiring, Retention and Productivity. We intend to continue to recruit account executives. We ended 2005 with 250 account executives compared to 281 in 2004. The reduction was due to a qualitative review of our account executives. Currently, we hope to hire approximately 100 new account executives during 2006 for our Portland, Oregon call center and continue hiring for the Auburn headquarters. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to hire to these levels, or recruit the quality individuals that we hope to hire, or that the individuals hired will remain employed for an extended period of time, or that we will not lose existing account executives. The productivity of account executives has historically been closely correlated with tenure. Even if we do retain our account executives, there are no assurances that they will become productive at historical levels. Additionally, there are no assurances that our new Portland, Oregon call center will attract qualified account executives, or that we will be able to remotely manage and retain the new account executives. Vendor Support. We have a variety of relationships with our vendors that in the past have contributed significantly to profit margins. For example, certain product manufacturers and distributors provide us with incentives in the form of rebates, volume incentive rebates, cash discounts and trade allowances. In addition, many of our vendors provide us with cooperative advertising funds, which reimburse us for expenses associated with specific forms of advertising. Industry-wide, manufacturers, distributors and vendors have been reducing these incentives and curtailing these programs. If these forms of vendor support decline further, or if we are otherwise unable to take advantage of continuing vendor support programs, or if we fail to manage the complexity of these programs, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents Major Shareholder. Firoz H. Lalji, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 52.0% of the outstanding shares of Zones common stock, excluding shares that he may acquire upon exercise of stock options that he holds. If Mr. Lalji exercises all options and retains the shares of common stock issued to him upon such exercise, his collective ownership would increase to 55.7% of the outstanding shares of Zones common stock. The voting power of these shares enables Mr. Lalji to significantly influence our affairs and the vote on corporate matters to be decided by our shareholders, including the outcome of elections of directors. This effective voting control may preclude other shareholders from being able to influence shareholder votes and could impede potential merger transactions or block changes to our articles of incorporation or bylaws, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our certification as a Minority Business Enterprise is dependent on Mr. Lalji’s maintenance of voting control, and a decrease in his level of voting power could have an adverse effect on our ability to retain certain customers or compete for certain opportunities. Competition. The computer products industry is highly competitive. We believe that the relationships with the customer, prices, service offerings, and product selection and availability are the most important competitive factors. We compete with other national direct marketers, including CDW Corporation, Insight Enterprises, Inc., PC Connection, Inc. and PC Mall, Inc. We also compete with product manufacturers, such as Apple, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo that sell direct to end-users; specialty computer retailers; computer and general merchandise superstores; and consumer electronic and office supply stores. Many of our competitors compete principally on the basis of price and have lower costs. We believe that competition may intensify in the future due to market conditions and consolidation. In the future, we may face fewer, but larger or better-financed competitors. Additional competition may also arise if other methods of distribution emerge in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing competitors or new competitors that may enter the market, or that our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations will not be adversely affected by intensified competition. Rapid Technological Change and Inventory Obsolescence. The computer industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introductions of new products and product enhancements. To satisfy customer demand and obtain greater purchase discounts, we may be required to carry significant inventory levels of certain products, which subject us to increased risk of inventory obsolescence. We participate in first-to-market and end-of-life-cycle purchase opportunities, both of which carry the risk of inventory obsolescence. Special purchase products are sometimes acquired without return privileges, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to such products. Within the industry, vendors are becoming increasingly restrictive in guaranteeing return privileges. While we seek to reduce our inventory exposure through a variety of inventory control procedures and policies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to obsolete inventory. Reliance on Vendor Relationships. We acquire products directly from manufacturers, such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo, as well as from distributors such as Ingram Micro, Synnex, Tech Data and others. Certain hardware manufacturers limit the number of product units available to DMRs. Substantially, all of our contracts and arrangements with its vendors are terminable without notice or upon short notice. Termination, interruption or contraction of our relationships with our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Increased Expenses of Being a Public Company. The costs of being a public company have increased significantly since the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Legal counsel fees specific to the increased disclosure requirements and the need to comply with new corporate governance requirements have increased under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as SEC regulations and new NASDAQ rules. Additionally, independent registered public accounting firm audit fees have significantly increased and are expected to increase even more as requirements associated with corporate governance and internal controls become effective. These increasing costs may affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. State Tax Uncertainties. We collect and remit sales and use taxes in states in which we have voluntarily registered and/or has a physical presence. Various states have sought to require the collection of state and local sales taxes on products shipped to the taxing jurisdiction’s residents by DMRs. The United States Supreme Court held in 1992 that it is unconstitutional for a state to impose sales or use tax collection obligations on an out-of-state company whose contacts with the state were limited to the distribution of catalogs and other advertising materials through the mail and the subsequent delivery of purchased goods by United States mail or by common carrier. We cannot predict the level of contact, including electronic commerce and Internet activity that might give rise to future or past tax collection obligations based on that Supreme Court case. Many states aggressively pursue out of state businesses, and legislation that would expand the ability of states to impose sales tax collection obligations on out of state businesses has been introduced in Congress on many occasions. A change in the law could require us to collect sales taxes or similar taxes on sales in states in which hawse have no presence and could potentially subject us to a liability for prior year sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Reliance on Distribution. We operate warehouse and distribution centers in Bensenville, Illinois and now in Seattle, Washington. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we moved our Henderson, Nevada warehouse to Seattle, Washington. There are no assurances that transitioning the warehouse location will better support our customers on the West Coast or will be a suitable replacement for the Bensenville, Illinois facility in case of disruption. Additionally, certain distributors also participate in our logistics operations through electronic data interchange. Failure to develop and maintain relationships with these and other vendors would limit our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend to a significant extent upon its ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. Although our success will depend on personnel in all areas of our business, there are certain individuals that play a key role within the organization. Loss of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Liquidity of Stock and NASDAQ National Market Listing. There is relatively limited trading of our stock in the public markets, and this may impose significant practical limitations on any shareholder’s ability to achieve liquidity at any particular quoted price. Efforts to sell significant amounts of our stock on the open market may precipitate significant declines in the prices quoted by market makers. The limitation on shareholder liquidity resulting from this relatively thin trading volume could be exacerbated if our stock were to be delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. The NASDAQ National Market also imposes a requirement for continued listing that mandates that the value of shares publicly held, excluding those held by directors, officers and beneficial owners, exceed certain minimums. A potential future delisting of our common stock could result in significantly reduced circulation of our common stock, more limited press coverage, reduced interest by investors in the common stock, adverse effects on the trading market, price for and liquidity of our stock, and reduced ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. Major Customer. From time to time we have customers that represent more than 10% of total sales. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no customers that individually represented more than 10% of total net sales. Potential Disruption of Business From Information Systems Failure. Our operations are dependent on the reliability of information, telecommunication and other systems, which are used for sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, customer service and general accounting functions. Interruption of our information systems, Internet or telecommunication systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition cash flows or results of operations. The Business The Company’s business is the procurement and fulfillment of IT solutions to the SMB, enterprise customer and public sector marketplace. Relationships with commercial and public sector institutions represented 96.5% of net sales in 2005. The remaining revenue was primarily yielded from inbound consumers and small office/home office accounts. Substantially, all of the Company’s business is done in the United States of America. The Company’s core business is focused on the commercial and public sector markets within the United States. This is a large, addressable market of companies primarily served by a highly fragmented VAR community. The Company believes that the small customer, meaning those businesses with 50 to 100 computer users, is characterized by a transactional business, in contrast to the medium-sized customer, meaning those businesses with 100 to 1000 computer users, which is relationship-driven with more frequent transactions. The small and medium-sized business customers have a high adoption rate for IT solutions and prefer a single source provider to handle their procurement from end to end. Enterprise customers generally are defined as customers within the Fortune 2000, with over 1000 computer users, and demand a much higher level of customer service. The public sector market is made up of three primary customer types: state and local government, federal government and education. These sectors require special pricing and participation in bid processes. As a value-add-on to its customers, the Company offers asset tagging, configuration and other third-party services, and also maintains integration of customers’ business needs and processes through ZonesConnect, the Company’s robust, automated Web-based procurement system. 6 Table of Contents The Business Strategy The Company acquires and develops ongoing relationships with commercial and public sector accounts primarily through dedicated teams of outbound account executives (“AE”). Although outbound telemarketing is the Company’s primary customer contact, it also reaches customers through an integrated marketing and merchandising strategy that utilizes e-marketing and direct marketing vehicles, catalogs for demand response opportunities and corporate branding, and customized Web stores for its commercial customers through ZonesConnect. The Company’s support departments, such as Marketing and Merchandising, have aligned their processes, pricing, stocking strategies, marketing programs, quotas, communication methodology and training to the distinct priorities set for each sales department. The Company believes that its ability to grow in 2006 will depend on the continuation of growth in corporate IT spending as well as increases in market share and the depth of IT spending generated from existing customers. The Company believes that IT spending continues to be a function of growth in corporate profits, coupled with businesses perception of future economic growth. The Company’s business model relies on building and maintaining relationships with its customers to provide solutions to solve its customers’ needs. The Company strives to offer exemplary customer service in each transaction, which it defines as Five Star Service. Five Star Service is founded on these principles: Exceeding expectations, providing outstanding customer service, performing flawless execution, demonstrating the highest level of personal integrity, and placing the customer first. The Company offers the most competitive value based on: · Price. Zones offers competitive pricing to its customers. · Availability. With more than 150,000 products available from more than 2,000 vendors, Zones strives to deliver the products its customers need. · Information. The technology industry is constantly changing with new and upgraded products and services, so Zones Account Executives receive continuous training throughout their careers. This allows them to serve as a knowledgeable extension of each customer's team. · Fulfillment. Zones strives to deliver every order complete and on time. · Service. Zones offers a breadth of services and sales specialists to support the customer IT relationship. For example, the Company’s customized online order management system, ZonesConnect, helps its customers reduce administrative costs and streamline the purchasing process. With additional services such as asset tagging, imaging, and product upgrades, Zones is a proactive business partner throughout the sales cycle. The specific areas of concentration to realize growth in the Company’s share of the IT-procurement market are: Call Center Expansion. To drive market share growth, the Company has established an additional sales call center in Portland, Oregon. The Company hopes to hire as many as 100 new AEs in Portland by the end of 2006. The Company’s hiring efforts in Portland will not diminish its recruiting and training initiatives dedicated to adding AEs at its Auburn location. AE Hiring, Training and Development. The Company continually seeks to attract, retain and motivate high-quality personnel. Management focuses on training and coaching AEs on best practices, product knowledge, and how to access supportive collateral on the available marketing and merchandising programs and promotions. The Company focuses on its relationship-based model, in which its AEs develop long-term relationships with customers through frequent telephone contact, knowledgeable technical advice, individual attention, quality service, and convenient one-stop shopping. Expansion of Customer Base. Relationships built with the Company’s commercial and public sector accounts represent future growth opportunities. The Company continues to refine its lead generation programs and processes to increase and accelerate customer acquisition. During 2006, the Company intends to focus on a customer management program to better understand the purchasing patterns and products of each individual customer. The Company believes this will increase operation efficiencies in the selling process and minimize loss of revenues during an account transition from one AE to another. The Company intends to explore opportunities for introduction of sales verticals that would create expertise in certain industry segments and product lines. Product Breadth and Depth. The Company depends upon relationships with key vendors for opportunistic product purchases to enhance margins. Through a strategic mix of products and vendors, the Company offers its customers a broad selection at competitive pricing. The Company generally stocks 20% of its product offerings, which represent 80% of its total revenue, in its warehousing facilities. The remaining items are offered to the Company’s customers through its virtual warehousing partnerships with key distributors and vendors via electronic data interchange (“EDI”). The Company uses its warehouse and EDI partners to fulfill its customers’ needs with broad product availability. The Company places individual orders directly with its EDI partners, who then assemble these orders and ship them directly to the Company’s customers. 7 Table of Contents Services. The Company offers custom configuration services, such as the installation of accessories and expansion products, loading of software, imaging for custom applications and configuration of network operating systems. These services are performed at the Company’s distribution centers. Custom configuration services benefit customers by reducing the cost and time necessary to deploy new products into their existing technology environments. Sales and Marketing The Company reaches customers through an integrated marketing and merchandising strategy designed to attract customers through dedicated e-marketing and direct marketing vehicles, catalogs for demand-response opportunities and corporate branding, and customized Web stores for corporate customers through its ZonesConnect service. Throughout the year, marketing refines the characteristics of the Company’s target customers in each market and creates specific marketing collateral to reach that audience. Outbound Telemarketing. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a staff of 241 AEs who actively pursued sales to commercial accounts and public sector institutions by establishing one-to-one relationships through outbound telemarketing. The primary targets for AEs in the SMB department are the small to medium-sized business customers, while enterprise customer AEs focus on companies within the Fortune 2000. These commissioned AEs develop long-term relationships with their accounts through frequent telephone contact, knowledgeable technical advice, individual attention, quality service, and convenient one-stop shopping. Inbound Sales. The Company believes it has well-trained and knowledgeable inbound telemarketing representatives. The Company offers toll-free numbers for inbound sales that are staffed seven days a week. The Company’s inbound telephone sales personnel are also available to assist online customers. Extranet Commerce. The Company offers no-fee dedicated Web stores for its customers through ZonesConnect. These dedicated sites provide the customer with various benefits, including secure online purchasing, license trackers, comprehensive product and manufacturer information, order status information, multiple shopping baskets, varying ship-to options per order, enhanced search and browse capabilities, and historical purchase information. In addition, the Company often provides more customized extranet sites for larger customers with specific online procurement needs. Internet Commerce. The Company’s electronic commerce sites on the Internet, Zones.com and MacZone.com, provide a sales channel to both supplement and enhance our person-to-person sales model and to provide customers detailed product information and the convenience of online purchasing. The Company drives traffic to these sites by featuring the Internet address throughout its direct-mail vehicles and on the Company’s promotional communications and advertising. The Company also utilizes marketing through e-catalogs, as well as online price promotions and affiliations. Direct Mail. The Company markets products through targeted mailings of direct-mail vehicles, such as catalogs, product inserts and targeted customer mailings. The Company utilizes its direct mail vehicles as part of a customer acquisition and retention strategy, as well as a direct marketing tool and branding vehicle to drive significant traffic to its online sites, Zones.com and MacZone.com, as well as to the sales force. The Company uses cooperative advertising funds, which are proof of performance expense reimbursements, to substantially offset the costs associated with its catalog circulation and other marketing activities. The amount of this type of funding available from the Company’s vendors has generally declined both in dollars and as a percentage of sales over the last several years. Net advertising costs may continue to fluctuate or rise in the future as the Company continues to adapt and adjust its catalog circulation, Internet and other marketing activities to optimize sales and profitability in light of changing market conditions. 8 Table of Contents Products and Merchandising The Company offers customers access to more than 150,000 hardware, software, peripheral and accessory products and services for users of Windows-based and Mac computers from over 2,000 manufacturers through the Company's catalogs, electronic commerce sites and sales force. Computers and Servers. The Company offers a large selection of desktop, laptop and tablet PC systems and servers from leading manufacturers, such as Acer, Apple, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Fujitsu, IBM, Lenovo, Panasonic, Sony and Toshiba. Peripherals and Accessories. The Company carries a full line of peripheral products such as printers, monitors, keyboards, handhelds (PDAs), memory, storage devices, modems, projectors, scanners and digital cameras, as well as various accessories and printing supplies such as toner cartridges, storage media and cables. Brands offered by the Company include APC, Apple, ATI, Belkin, Canon, Edge, Epson, Hewlett-Packard, InFocus, Iomega, Kingston, Kodak, Fuji, Lexmark, Logitech, LG, NEC-Mitsubishi, Nikon, Okidata, palmOne, Planar, Samsung, Sony, Targus, ViewSonic, and Xerox. Networking and Storage. The Company provides networking and network storage products such as switches, hubs, routers, cabling, firewalls, Voice over IP (VOIP), wireless devices, tape and disk backup, and SAN and NAS solutions. Brands offered by the Company include 3Com, ADIC, Apple, Avocent, Belkin, Cisco, D-Link, EMC, Emulex, Exabyte, Hewlett-Packard, Hitachi Data Systems, IBM, Intel, Iomega, La Cie, Linksys, Netgear, Nortel Networks, Overland Storage, Qlogic, Quantum, Seagate, SonicWALL, Sony, Western Digital, among others. Software. The Company sells a wide variety of packaged software and licensing programs in business, personal productivity, connectivity, utility, language, educational, entertainment and other categories. The Company offers products from larger, well-known manufacturers, as well as numerous specialty products from new and emerging software development companies. Brands offered by the Company include Adobe, Citrix, Computer Associates, Corel, IBM, Microsoft, Novell, Symantec, Quark and VMware, among others. The Company is a Microsoft Certified Large Account Reseller, and, as such, can offer its large customers multiple methods of purchasing Microsoft software. This enables the Company to sell Select and Enterprise Agreement contracts to its customers. These software licensing agreements are designed for medium- to large-sized commercial and academic customers. The Company’s category merchandising group determines the manufacturers’ products that will be featured in its Internet, catalog and internal ERP offerings and negotiates the terms and conditions of product coverage. The merchandising department reviews product availability and determines stocking strategy, as well as reviewing its managed stock keeping units (“SKU”), which ensures that the Company is offering differentiating programs and competitive pricing. Each managed SKU also has component and add-on information to assist the AE in the selling process. Zones’ merchants have aligned their processes, pricing, stocking strategies, marketing programs, quotas, communication methodology and training to the priorities set by each sales department. The merchandising group negotiates with manufacturers and distributors to provide the Company with incentives in the form of rebates, discounts and trade allowances. Purchasing The Company utilizes its purchasing and inventory management capabilities to support its primary business objective of providing name brand products at competitive prices. The Company’s purchasing team works to develop and maintain relationships with a broad base of reliable, high-quality suppliers. The team works to obtain the lowest overall acquisition cost in an effort to enable the Company to provide competitive pricing to its customers while maximizing its margins. The Company acquires products directly from manufacturers such as Apple, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo, as well as through distributors such as Ingram Micro, Synnex and Tech Data, among others. In 2005, the Company purchased approximately 62.6% of its merchandise from distributors, a decrease from 71.7% in 2004. The Company believes that its overall sourcing strategy enables it to take advantage of significant special offers, discounts and supplier reimbursements, while also minimizing inventory costs. The Company believes it has excellent relationships with its suppliers and attempts to take advantage of all appropriate discounts. 9 Table of Contents The Company utilizes a blend of stocking and drop-ship procurement in executing its inventory management strategy. The Company generally stocks products that represent up to 80% of total revenue, including high-velocity and strategic products purchases. The remaining products are provided to the Company’s customers primarily through virtual warehousing partnerships with key distributors and manufacturers. Through these relationships, the Company is able to offer a broad selection of products and provide prompt, cost-efficient fulfillment with minimal inventory exposure. This virtual fulfillment model is facilitated through industry-standard EDI linkages with suppliers. All associated transactions are managed through and integrated within the Company’s ERP system, which lowers administrative overhead. At December 31, 2005, the Company maintained an investment in inventory of $19.7 million, which turned an average of 26 times in 2005. This compares to an investment in inventory of $17.4 million at December 31, 2004, which turned an average of 29 times during 2004. The Company’s investment in inventory grew at December 31, 2005 due to on-hand customer-specific inventory as well as inventory supported by binding purchase orders. Order Fulfillment and Distribution The Company distributes products virtually through its EDI arrangement with its vendors, as well as through its warehouses in Bensenville, Illinois and Seattle, Washington. The Company provides and operates a full-service warehouse and distribution center in Bensenville, Illinois to support its nationwide customer base and a customized fulfillment center in Seattle, Washington to specifically support the Company’s West Coast customers. The warehouse personnel utilize the Company’s systems, policies and procedures to receive, record and warehouse inventory shipments from product suppliers, fill and ship customer orders, and return inventory to product suppliers when requested by the Company. The Company also uses its warehouse facilities to house special buys, constrained product and other high velocity product. The Bensenville, Illinois warehouse is responsible for the returned merchandise that will be returned to vendor, returned to general inventory, repaired or liquidated. Returns are at the Company’s discretion and the Company maintained an allowance for sales returns during 2005 and 2004 of $108,000 and $75,000, respectively. The Company’s return policy allows for customer returns in certain cases. Its returns as a percentage of gross sales increased slightly to 2.2% in 2005 compared to 2.1% in 2004. Product returns are closely monitored to identify trends in product offerings, to enhance customer satisfaction and to reduce overall returns. Orders received by the Company are electronically transmitted on a dedicated data line to its distribution centers, where a packing slip is printed out for order fulfillment, and inventory availability is then automatically updated on all of the Company’s information systems. All inventory items are barcoded and located in designated areas that are easily identified on the packing slip. All items are checked with bar code scanners prior to final packing, which helps to ensure that orders are filled correctly. Orders accepted for items in stock by 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time can generally be delivered overnight. Upon request, orders may also be shipped for Saturday delivery or by ground service or other overnight delivery services. Technical Support and Customer Service The Company maintains a staff of dedicated technical support personnel who provide pre- and post-sale technical support both for Zones account managers and its customers. In addition to a broad base of A+ certifications, the team also maintains a number of distinguished manufacturer certifications, including Cisco CCNA, VMware VCP, Microsoft MCSE, APC Gold, LANDesk, Citrix CCA, and several other hardware-specific technical certifications. Pre-sales support is utilized primarily by the Company’s account managers to assist them in optimizing product recommendations, assessing compatibility and other technical requirements, providing technical consulting and design services, and offering configuration and custom imaging support services. Post-sales support is provided primarily to assist customers with their technical questions concerning the installation and operation of the products they purchase. The Company also employs a staff of dedicated customer service representatives who respond to and facilitate inquiries regarding order status and related matters, shipment tracking, billing issues and return requests. These services are provided via toll-free telephone support, as well as online tools that allow customers to self-serve routine inquiries. The Company believes the employment of these comprehensive support options improves the quality of its recommended technology solutions, reduces product returns, increases customer satisfaction and encourages repeat business. 10 Table of Contents Systems The Company continues to commit significant resources to the development of sophisticated management information, telecommunication, catalog production and other systems, which are employed in virtually all aspects of its business, including marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, product distribution, accounts receivable, customer service and general accounting functions. During 2005, the Company continued to develop and enhance its sales interface for order entry. The Company’s graphical user interface ties all of the core systems together to give the AEs a common view of customers, products, inventory, and orders to streamline order processing as well as reduce the training time for new AEs. The Company is continually examining technological advances to increase the productivity of its team members. Marketing The Company maintains a proprietary database containing approximately 35,000 customer records and has built a prospecting database of more than 150,000 commercial leads. In the commercial market, the Company attracts new customers by providing qualified leads to outbound account executives, warming the leads with catalogs and direct-mail, and building relationships through outbound telephone calls. Retention of customers and account development is supported by catalog, direct mail and e-marketing. Catalog circulation is based on customer records, prospective customer inquirers, and mailing lists obtained from list brokers, product manufacturers, trade magazine publishers, association memberships and other sources. The Company regularly analyzes and updates its database and other available information to keep data current and to enhance customer response and order rates. The Company tracks the buying patterns of its customers in an attempt to anticipate customers’ needs and generate additional product orders. The Company believes that by selectively targeting its print media and e-vehicles to specific groups of customers with known product affinities and purchasing characteristics, it will be able to increase order rates by customers. The Company’s database-marketing capabilities allow it to promote products and offers from key manufacturers with strong target customers. The Company believes these efforts assist it in promoting and preserving positive relationships with manufacturers, as well as proactively presenting customers relevant offers. Team Members At December 31, 2005, the Company had 577 team members: 250 in the sales force, 36 in its warehousing and distribution, and 291 team members in its administrative overhead departments. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. The Company has never had a work stoppage and does not believe that any team members are represented by a labor organization. The Company emphasizes the recruiting and training of high-quality personnel and strives to promote people to positions of increased responsibility from within the Company. Sales Team Education The Company provides a balanced training program consisting of classroom and practical on-the-job learning within an outbound sales environment. Zones New Hire Development takes an integrated approach in developing the new hires’ skills for acquiring and developing customers using a relationship-building sales methodology. AEs learn to utilize various internal and external systems and receive hardware and software product education. Mission & Values The Company is dedicated to creating a learning organization of empowered individuals to serve its customers with integrity, commitment and passion. It strives to achieve this by stimulating a positive and collaborative workplace environment, delivering high-speed and quality service to its customers, and adapting to external changes with flexibility, innovation and leading-edge technology. Seasonality Sales to the Company’s commercial customers have not historically experienced significant seasonality throughout the year. In contrast, sales to the public sector market are historically higher in the third quarter than in other quarters due to the buying patterns of federal government and education customers. If sales to public sector customer’s increase as a percentage of overall sales, the Company as a whole may experience increased seasonality in future periods. 11 Table of Contents Trademarks The Company conducts its business in the United States primarily under the service marks Zones® and The Mac Zone® both of which are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Company believes that these and its other marks have significant value and are an important factor in the marketing of its products. Regulatory and Legal Matters In addition to federal, state and local laws applicable to all corporations and employers in general, the direct marketing business as conducted by the Company is subject to the Federal Trade Commission’s Merchandise Mail Order Rule and related regulations. The Company is also subject to laws and regulations relating to truth-in-advertising, Anti-Spam and other fair trade and privacy practices. The Company has implemented programs and systems to promote ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations. Available Information The Company makes available free of charge on its website, at www.zones.com/IR, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, all materials that the Company files with the SEC can be viewed and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington DC 20549, or via the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company’s Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Nominating and Governance Committee Charter are also available on its website or upon written or verbal request. Requests for copies of any of these documents should be directed in writing to Zones, Inc. Investor Relations, 1102 15th Street SW, Suite 102, Auburn, WA 98001-6509. Item 