ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere by management from time to time. Factors relating to our financial results The number of our license arrangements has been increasing, and we may not be able to sustain this growth unless we and our partners can provide sufficient high quality consulting services, training, and maintenance resources to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our software. Our customers typically request consulting services and training to assist them in implementing our products. Our customers also purchase maintenance on our products in almost all cases. As a result, an increase in the number of license arrangements is likely to increase demand for consulting services, training, and maintenance relating to our products. Given that the number of our license arrangements has been increasing, we will need to provide our customers with more consulting services, training, and maintenance to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our software. We have been increasingly enabling our partners and customers through training to create an expanded universe of people that are skilled in the implementation of our products. However, if we and our partners are unable to provide sufficient high quality consulting services, training, or maintenance resources to our customers, our customers may not realize sufficient business value from our products to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. In addition, the growth required to meet the increased demand for our consulting services could strain our ability to deliver our services engagements at desired levels of profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. We frequently enter into a series of licenses that are focused on a specific purpose or area of operations, rather than selling a large enterprise license. If we are not successful in obtaining follow-on business from these customers, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We frequently enter into a series of licenses with our new customers that are focused on a specific purpose or area of operations, rather than selling a large enterprise license. Once a customer has realized the value of our software, we work with the customer to identify opportunities for follow-on sales. However, we may not be successful in demonstrating this value to some customers, for reasons relating to the performance of our products, the quality of the services and support we provide for our products, or external reasons. For these customers, we may not obtain follow-on sales or the follow-on sales may be delayed, and our license revenue could be limited. This could lower the total value of all transactions and adversely affect our financial performance. Our consulting services revenue is dependent to a significant extent on closing new license transactions with customers. We derive a substantial portion of our consulting services revenue from implementation of new software licenses with our customers, both from implementations that are led by our consulting services staff and from implementations where we provide consulting to our partners and customers to support their implementations. Accordingly, it is imperative that we close more license transactions with our customers if we are to maintain or grow our services revenue. If we are unable to maintain vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value of our professional services arrangements, we may be required to delay the recognition of a portion of our revenue to future periods. We have established VSOE of fair value of our professional services in North America, Australia, and Europe, based on the price charged when these services are sold separately. The weakened economy and significant competition within our industry have created pricing pressure on professional services provided by technology companies. If we elect to discount our professional services pricing or otherwise introduce variability in our professional services arrangements to attract or retain customers, this could lead to an insufficient number of consistently priced professional services arrangements for us to maintain VSOE. If we do not have VSOE of fair value of our professional services, we may be required to recognize all revenue for these professional services arrangements, including any related license, maintenance, and other services revenue if the professional services are bundled in an arrangement, ratably over the longer of the software maintenance period or the service period. 10 Table of Contents The timing of our license revenue is difficult to predict accurately, which may cause our quarterly operating results to vary considerably. A change in the number or size of high value license arrangements, or a change in the mix between perpetual licenses, term licenses, and Pega Cloud subscriptions can cause our revenues to fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter. Our decision to enter into term licenses and Pega Cloud subscriptions that require the revenue to be recognized over the license term may adversely affect our profitability in any period due to sales commissions being paid at the time of signing and the corresponding revenue being recognized over time. We budget for our selling and marketing, product development, and other expenses based on anticipated future revenue. If the timing or amount of revenue fails to meet our expectations in any given quarter, our financial performance is likely to be adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are required to change certain estimates, judgments, and positions relative to our income taxes. In the ordinary course of conducting a global business enterprise, there are many transactions and calculations undertaken whose ultimate tax outcome cannot be certain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of positions we have taken regarding valuation of deferred tax assets, transfer pricing for transactions with our subsidiaries, and potential challenges to nexus and tax credit estimates. We estimate our exposure to unfavorable outcomes related to these uncertainties and estimate the probability of such outcomes. Future realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income within the available carryback or carryforward periods. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. If our taxable income is not consistent with our expectations or the timing of income is not within the applicable carryforward period, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance on all or a portion of these deferred tax assets. Changes in our valuation allowance impact income tax expense in the period of adjustment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters or our current estimates regarding these matters will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, returns, and accruals. Such differences, or changes in estimates relating to potential differences, could have a material impact, unfavorable or favorable, on our income tax provisions, require us to change the recorded value of deferred tax assets, and adversely affect our financial results. We are investing heavily in sales and marketing and support in anticipation of a continued increase in license arrangements, and we may experience decreased profitability or losses if we are unsuccessful in increasing the value of our license arrangements in the future. We have been increasing our investment in sales and marketing to meet increasing demand for our software by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel. We anticipate that we will need to provide our customers with more maintenance support as a result of this increase in demand, and have been hiring additional personnel in this area. These investments have resulted in increased fixed costs that do not vary with the level of revenue. If the increased demand for our products does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses as a result of these increased fixed costs. 11 Table of Contents Factors relating to our products and markets The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the global financial markets related to the European sovereign debt crisis and the so-called “fiscal cliff” in the U.S. may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility, and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. This debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our European customers and reducing the translation of Euro based revenues into U.S. dollars. In the event that one or more countries were to replace the Euro with their legacy currency, then the Company’s sales in and to such countries, or Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates were established. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. Finally, global credit markets and the condition of the U.S. domestic and global economy could be further affected by the “fiscal cliff” tax increases and spending cuts that were scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2013. While Congress made changes to defer some of these austerity measures from going into effect, economic growth in the United States could stall or go into recession which, among other things, could decrease demand for our products and services and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. If global economic and market conditions, or economic and financial market conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, our customers may respond by suspending, delaying or reducing their expenditures, which may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. The continued weakness in the U.S and international economies may negatively impact our sales to, and the collection of receivables from, our financial services and insurance customers and possibly our customers in other industries. Our sales to, and our collection of receivables from, our customers may be impacted by adverse changes in global economic conditions, especially in the U.S., Europe and Asia Pacific. In the past few years, these regions have experienced instability in financial markets, tightening credit, and weak overall economic conditions, which has impacted the financial services and insurance industries in particular. These trends could impact the ability and willingness of our financial services and insurance customers, and possibly our customers in other industries, to make investments in technology, which may delay or reduce the amount of purchases of our software and professional services. These factors could also impact the ability and willingness of these customers to pay their trade obligations and honor their contractual commitments under their non-cancelable term licenses. These customers may also become subject to increasingly restrictive regulatory requirements, which could limit or delay their ability to proceed with new technology purchases. Our financial services and insurance customers as a group represent a significant amount of our revenues and receivables. Accordingly, their potential financial instability could negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We will need to acquire or develop new products, evolve existing ones, and adapt to technology change. Technical developments, customer requirements, programming languages, and industry standards change frequently in our markets. As a result, success in current markets and new markets will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, to acquire or develop and introduce new products that meet customer needs, keep pace with technology changes, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement, and testing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make necessary product development investments. We may experience difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, or implementation of new or enhanced products. Inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner would adversely affect future financial performance. 12 Table of Contents The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented. The market for our software and related implementation, consulting, and training services is intensely competitive, rapidly changing and highly fragmented. We currently encounter significant competition from internal information systems departments of potential or existing customers that develop custom software. We also compete with large technology companies such as IBM, Oracle and SAP, companies that target the customer interaction and workflow markets, companies focused on business rules engines or enterprise application integration, “pure play” BPM companies, industry-specific application vendors, and professional service organizations that develop custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services. Competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions are likely to increase. Many competitors have far greater resources and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new or emerging technologies, programming languages or standards or to changes in customer requirements or preferences. Competitors may also be able to devote greater managerial and financial resources to develop, promote, and distribute products and provide related consulting and training services. There has been recent consolidation in the BPM market whereby larger companies such as IBM, Oracle, and OpenText have acquired companies that provide BPM software, which we expect will further increase competition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by us will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have historically sold to the financial services, insurance and healthcare markets, and rapid changes or consolidation in these markets could affect the level of demand for our products. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers in the financial services, insurance, and healthcare markets, and sales to these markets are important for our future growth. Competitive pressures, industry consolidation, decreasing operating margins, regulatory changes, and privacy concerns affect the financial condition of our customers and their willingness to buy. In addition, customers’ purchasing patterns in these industries for large technology projects are somewhat discretionary. The financial services and insurance markets are undergoing intense domestic and international consolidation and financial turmoil, and consolidation has been occurring in the healthcare market. Consolidation may interrupt normal buying behaviors and increase the volatility of our operating results. In recent years, several of our customers have been merged or consolidated, and we expect this to continue in the near future. Future mergers or consolidations may cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect our future financial performance. All of these factors affect the level of demand for our products from customers in these industries, and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on certain third-party relationships. We have a number of relationships with third parties that are significant to sales, marketing and support activities, and product development efforts. We rely on software and hardware vendors, large system integrators, and technology consulting firms to provide marketing and sales opportunities for the direct sales force and to strengthen our products through the use of industry-standard tools and utilities. We also have relationships with third parties that distribute our products. There can be no assurance that these companies, most of which have significantly greater financial and marketing resources, will not develop or market products that compete with ours in the future or will not otherwise end or limit their relationships with us. 13 Table of Contents We face risks from operations and customers based outside of the U.S. Sales to customers located outside of the U.S. represented approximately 46% of our total revenue in 2012, approximately 48% of our total revenue in 2011, and approximately 41% of our total revenue in 2010. We, in part through our wholly owned subsidiaries, market products and render consulting and training services to customers based outside of the U.S. including, for example, customers based in Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland, Finland, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Turkey, Russia, Mexico, Australia, China, Hong Kong, and Singapore. We have established offices in North America, Europe, Asia, including India, and Australia. We believe that growth will necessitate expanded international operations, requiring a diversion of managerial attention and increased costs. We anticipate hiring additional personnel to accommodate international growth, and we may also enter into agreements with local distributors, representatives, or resellers. If we are unable to do one or more of these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in our foreign operations may be restricted, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, increased tariffs and other trade barriers, the costs of localizing products for local markets and complying with local business customs, longer accounts receivable patterns and difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, heightened risks of political and economic instability, the possibility of nationalization or expropriation of industries or properties, difficulties in managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences (including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”), increased accounting and internal control expenses, and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our foreign operations, and, consequentially, our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are usually denominated in foreign currencies. The operating expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure on our international sales. Our U.S. operating company invoices most of our foreign customers in foreign currencies, so it holds cash and accounts receivable denominated in these foreign currencies, which are subject to foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Beginning in the second quarter of 2011, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and cash held by our U.S. operating company. The use of these foreign currency forward contracts partially mitigates the exposure to the foreign currency transaction gains and losses. If we were to cease or reduce our use of foreign currency forward contracts or similar hedging arrangements, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies, particularly the British pound and the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, could adversely impact our financial results and cash flows. Factors relating to our internal operations and potential liabilities We depend on certain key personnel, and must be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The business is dependent on a number of key, highly skilled technical, managerial, consulting, sales, and marketing personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect financial performance. We do not have any significant key-man life insurance on any officers or employees and do not plan to obtain any. Our success will depend in large part on the ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. The number of potential employees who have the extensive knowledge of computer hardware and operating systems needed to develop, sell, and maintain our products is limited, and competition for their services is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We may experience significant errors or security flaws in our product and services, and could face privacy, product liability and warranty claims as a result. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, or could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors or security flaws in our software could result in the inadvertent disclosure of confidential information or personal data relating to our customers, employees, or third parties. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to privacy, product liability and warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Our license agreements typically contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of product liability and warranty claims. There is a risk that a court might interpret these terms in a limited way or could hold part or all of these terms to be unenforceable. Also, there is a risk that these contract terms might not bind a party other than the direct customer. Furthermore, some of our licenses with our customers are governed by non-U.S. law, and there is a risk that foreign law might give us less or different protection. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, a product liability suit or action claiming a breach of warranty, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and our resources. We face risks related to intellectual property claims or appropriation of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have obtained patents from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating to the architecture of our systems. We cannot assure that such patents will not be invalidated or circumvented or that rights granted thereunder or the claims contained therein will provide us with competitive advantages. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. There can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties, these limitations often contain certain exclusions, and we cannot be assured that these limitations will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if these limitations are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our customers for these types of claims could be material in amount given the size of certain of our transactions. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to increasingly complex and burdensome U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we do or intend to do business. We have developed and implemented a compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations, particularly as we expand our operations outside of the U.S. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our security measures are breached and/or unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s confidential information from our cloud computing service offering, we may be exposed to significant legal and financial liabilities. Our cloud computing service offering allows customers to create and deploy PRPC-based applications using an internet-based infrastructure. This offering involves the hosting of customers’ applications which may contain confidential information, including personal and financial data regarding their end customers on the servers of a third-party technology provider. We also rely on third-party systems including encryption, virtualized infrastructure and support. Because we do not control the transmissions between our customers and our third-party infrastructure providers, the processing of data on the servers of the third-party technology providers, or the internal controls maintained by the third-party technology providers that could prevent unauthorized access and provide appropriate data encryption, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions, data or processing. Our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, system error, human error or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have invested in the protection of our customers’ data to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breaches in our systems. Security breaches could expose us and our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. We carry data breach insurance coverage to potentially mitigate the financial impact of such potential legal liability. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 