ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section, in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks that we face. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. Risks Relating to Our Business A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more of our clients could cause a reduction in our revenue and operating results We rely on strategic, long-term relationships with large, global companies in targeted industries. As a result, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from relatively few clients. Our five largest clients collectively represented 40% of revenue in 2007 and 42% of revenue in 2006. Our ten largest clients represented 59% of revenue in 2007 and 61% of revenue in 2006. One of our clients, Sprint Nextel, represented 15% of our revenue in 2007 and 16% of our revenue in 2006. Sprint Nextel was the only client that represented over 10% of our revenue during these periods. We believe that a substantial portion of our total revenue will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of our clients in the future. The contracts with our five largest clients expire between 2008 and 2011. We have historically renewed most of our contracts with our largest clients. However, there is no assurance that any contracts will be renewed or, if renewed, will be on terms as favorable as the existing contracts. The volumes and profit margins of our most significant programs may decline and we may not be able to replace such clients or programs with clients or programs that generate comparable revenue and profits. Although we do not believe that it is likely our entire relationship with Sprint Nextel or any other 9 Table of Contents large client would terminate at one time, the loss of all or part of a major client’s business or a contract concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Client consolidations could result in a loss of clients or contract concessions that would adversely affect our operating results We serve clients in targeted industries that have historically experienced a significant level of consolidation. If one of our clients is acquired by another company (including another one of our clients), provisions in certain of our contracts allow these clients to cancel or renegotiate their contracts, or to seek contract concessions. Such consolidations may result in the termination or phasing out of an existing client contract, volume discounts and other contract concessions that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be affected by the performance of our clients and general economic conditions In substantially all of our client programs, we generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our employees devote to our clients’ customers. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client program is dependent upon consumers’ interest in and use of our client’s products and/or services, which may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. Our clients may not be able to market or develop products and services that require their customers to use our services, especially as a result of the recent downturn in the U.S. and worldwide economy. Furthermore, a decline in our clients’ business or performance, including possible client bankruptcies, could impair their ability to pay for our services. Although we currently do not anticipate payment issues with our major clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if any of them were unable or unwilling, for any reason, to pay for our services. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation, penalties and cause us to lose clients We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our financial results depend on our capacity utilization, in particular our ability to forecast our clients’ customer demand and make corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and operating expenses Our delivery center utilization rates have a substantial and direct effect on our profitability, and we may not achieve desired utilization rates. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • Our ability to maintain and increase capacity in each of our delivery centers during peak and non-peak hours; • Our ability to predict our clients’ customer demand for our services and thereby to make corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and other operating expenditures in each of our delivery center locations; • Our ability to hire and assimilate new employees and manage employee turnover; and • Our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other non-chargeable activities. We attempt to maximize utilization. However, because the majority of our business is inbound from our clients’ customer-initiated encounters, we have significantly higher utilization during peak (weekday) periods than during off-peak (night and weekend) periods. We have experienced periods of idle capacity, particularly in our multi-client delivery centers. Historically, we experience idle peak period capacity upon opening a new delivery center or termination or completion of a large client program. On a quarterly basis, we assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our delivery centers. We may consolidate or close under-performing delivery centers in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. In the event we close delivery centers in the future, we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain desired delivery center capacity utilization. As a result of the fixed costs associated with each delivery center, quarterly variations in client volumes, many of which are outside our control, can have a material adverse effect on our utilization rates. If our utilization rates are below expectations in any given quarter, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for that quarter could be adversely affected. Our business depends on uninterrupted service to clients Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our facilities, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, cyber attacks, telecommunications interruption or failure, labor shortages, weather conditions, natural disasters and other similar events. Additionally, severe weather can cause our employees to miss work and interrupt the delivery of our services, resulting in a loss of revenue. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our locations (including our corporate headquarters building), our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages or face the suspension or loss of a client’s business. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur. Many of our contracts utilize performance pricing that link some of our fees to the attainment of various performance or business targets, which could increase the variability of our revenue and operating margin A majority of our contracts include performance clauses that condition some of our fees on the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. These performance standards can be complex and often depend in some measure on our clients’ actual levels of business activity or other factors outside of our control. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could reduce our revenue under the contracts or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. 11 Table of Contents Our contracts provide for early termination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results Most of our contracts do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenue and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of a program. Our objective is to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However, our contracts generally enable the clients to terminate the contract or reduce customer interaction volumes. Our larger contracts generally require the client to pay a contractually agreed amount and/or provide prior notice in the event of early termination. There can be no assurance that we will be able to collect early termination fees. We may not be able to offset increased costs with increased service fees under long-term contracts Some of our larger long-term contracts allow us to increase our service fees if and to the extent certain cost or price indices increase. The majority of our expenses are payroll and payroll-related, which includes healthcare costs. Over the past several years, payroll costs, including healthcare costs, have increased at a rate much greater than that of general cost or price indices. Increases in our service fees that are based upon increases in cost or price indices may not fully compensate us for increases in labor and other costs incurred in providing services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover increases in our costs through increased service fees. Our business may be affected by our ability to obtain financing From time to time, we may need to obtain debt or equity financing for capital expenditures, for payment of existing obligations, to replenish cash reserves, or to fund acquisitions or joint ventures. Additionally, our existing credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. As a result of the voluntary, independent review of our historical equity-based compensation practices, we amended our credit facility with our lenders three times since November 2007 in order to ensure compliance with certain covenants. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Amendment of Credit Facility” for further discussion. Upon the filing of this Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and March 31, 2008, we believe that we will be in compliance with all financial covenants. However, if we do not file future quarterly or annual reports on a timely basis, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain waivers or additional amendments from our lenders. If our lenders refuse to waive or amend our existing credit facility in the future, we may be required to immediately repay the entire outstanding balance under our credit facility or to pay our lenders higher interest for past periods. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing, or that any such financing would be on terms acceptable to us. Our business may be affected by risks associated with international operations and expansion An important component of our growth strategy is continued international expansion. There are certain risks inherent with conducting international business, including but not limited to: • Management of personnel overseas; • Longer payment cycles; • Difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • Foreign currency exchange rates; • Difficulties in complying with foreign laws; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 12 Table of Contents • Political and social instability, as demonstrated by terrorist threats, regime change, increasing tension in the Middle East and other countries and the resulting need for enhanced security measures; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our international operations successfully. Our financial results may be impacted by foreign currency exchange risk We serve an increasing number of our clients from delivery centers in other countries including Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Mexico, the Philippines and South Africa. Contracts with these clients are typically priced, invoiced, and paid in U.S. dollars while the costs incurred to operate these delivery centers are denominated in the functional currency of the applicable non-U.S.-based contracting subsidiary. Therefore, fluctuations between the currencies of the contracting and operating subsidiary present foreign currency exchange risks. While we enter into forward and option contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, the foreign exchange exposure between the contracting and operating subsidiaries is not hedged 100%. Since the operating subsidiary assumes the foreign exchange exposure, its operating margins could decrease if the contracting subsidiary’s currency devalues against the operating subsidiary’s currency. For example, the U.S. dollar has weakened against many foreign currencies over the past two years. If the U.S. dollar continues to devalue, the financial results of certain operating subsidiaries (and hence TeleTech upon consolidation) will be negatively affected. While our hedging strategy effectively offset a portion of these foreign currency changes during 2006 and 2007, there can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully hedge this foreign currency exchange risk or that the value of the U.S. dollar will not materially weaken. If we fail to manage our foreign currency exchange risk, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements Because we provide services to clients in 50 countries, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our contractual and intellectual property rights, among other rights. Changes in U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations may adversely affect the sale of our services, including expansion of overseas operations. In the U.S., some of our services must comply with various federal and state regulations regarding the method and practices of placing outbound telephone calls. In addition, we could incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations related to the portions of our clients’ businesses that are transferred to us. Changes in these regulations and requirements, or new restrictive regulations and requirements, may slow the growth of our services or require us to incur substantial costs. Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions, such as preventing us from using offshore resources to provide our services, or could impose additional taxes on the provision of our services and solutions. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets. 13 Table of Contents Our financial results and projections may be impacted by our ability to maintain and find new locations for our delivery centers in countries with stable wage rates Our industry is labor-intensive and the majority of our operating costs relate to wages, employee benefits and employment taxes. As a result, our future growth is dependent upon our ability to find cost-effective locations in which to operate, both domestically and internationally. Some of our delivery centers are located in countries that have experienced rising standards of living, which may in turn require us to increase employee wages. In addition, approximately 14,500 employees outside the U.S. and Canada are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we anticipate that the terms of agreements will not impact us in a manner materially different than other companies located in these countries, we may not be able to pass increased labor costs on to our clients. There is no assurance that we will be able to find cost-effective locations. Any increases in labor costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The business process outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: • Initiate, develop and maintain new client relationships; • Expand existing client programs; • Staff and equip suitable delivery center facilities in a timely manner; and • Develop new solutions and enhance existing solutions we provide to our clients. Moreover, we compete with a variety of companies with respect to our offerings, including: • Large multinational providers, including the service arms of large global technology providers; • Offshore service providers in lower-cost locations that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices; • Niche solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area; and • Most importantly, the in-house operations of clients or potential clients. Because our primary competitors are the in-house operations of existing or potential clients, our performance and growth could be adversely affected if our existing or potential clients decide to provide in-house business process services they currently outsource, or retain or increase their in-house business processing services and product support capabilities. In addition, competitive pressures from current or future competitors also could cause our services to lose market acceptance or put downward pressure on the prices we charge for our services and on our operating margins. If we are unable to provide our clients with superior services and solutions at competitive prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not be able to develop our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement systems technology and outsourcing services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry developments and client needs. Our continued growth and future profitability will be highly dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to develop new technologies that: • Expand our existing solutions and offerings; • Achieve cost efficiencies in our existing delivery center operations; and • Introduce new solutions that leverage and respond to changing technological developments. 14 Table of Contents We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. Our integration of new technologies may not achieve their intended cost reductions and services and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our service offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to maintain our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to recruit, hire, train and retain key executives or qualified employees, our business will be adversely affected Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel. We generally experience high employee turnover and are continuously required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. Demand for qualified technical professionals conversant in multiple languages, including English, and/or certain technologies may exceed supply, as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving technologies. In addition, certain delivery centers are located in geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, which could make it more costly to hire qualified personnel. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training, or retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is also dependent upon the efforts, direction and guidance of our executive management team. Although members of our executive team are subject to non-competition agreements, they can terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and growth potential. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has practical control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders Kenneth D. Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 44.9% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Tuchman has practical control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including the election of our entire Board of Directors. It is unlikely that a change in control of our company could be effected without his approval. If we fail to integrate businesses and assets that we may acquire through joint ventures or acquisitions, we may lose clients and our liquidity, capital resources and profitability may be adversely affected We may pursue joint ventures or strategic acquisitions of companies with services, technologies, industry specializations, or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. Acquisitions and joint ventures often involve a number of special risks, including the following: • We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired software, operations and personnel and our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; • We may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired technology and rights into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • The businesses or assets we acquire may fail to achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated, causing us to incur additional debt to fund operations and to write down the value of acquisitions on our financial statements; • We may assume liabilities associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products or services; 15 Table of Contents • Our resources may be diverted in asserting and defending our legal rights and we may ultimately be liable for contingent and other liabilities, not previously disclosed to us, of the companies that we acquire; • Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business and dilute our ownership interest; • Acquisitions may result in litigation from former employees or third parties; and • Due diligence may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, ownership rights and legal contingencies, among other matters. We may pursue strategic alliances in the form of joint ventures and partnerships, which involve many of the same risks as acquisitions as well as additional risks associated with possible lack of control if we do not have a majority ownership position. Any of the factors identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market value of our common stock. In addition, negotiation of potential acquisitions and the resulting integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies, could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue dilutive equity or incur debt, contingent liabilities, additional amortization charges from intangible assets, asset impairment charges, or write-off charges for in-process research and development and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face risks relating to our completed and continued actions to remediate the weaknesses in our financial reporting and disclosure controls, which could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price As a result of issues identified during the recently completed Audit Committee Review and related accounting, as well as our internal review, management has identified deficiencies in our control environment that constitute material weaknesses and, consequently, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007. As discussed below under the caption Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, we are currently in the process of remediating these material weaknesses which have not been completed. However, if the corrective actions we have already taken and continue to take do not successfully remediate these material weaknesses in a timely manner, our stock price may decline and we may be required to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other factors, the following: • Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results; • Announcements of new contracts or contract cancellations; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • Our ability to meet the expectations of securities analysts; • Conditions or trends in the business process outsourcing industry; • Changes in the market valuations of other business process outsourcing companies; • Developments in countries where we have significant delivery centers, GigaPOPs or operations; • The ability of our clients to pay for our services; • Other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for BPO providers in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. You may suffer significant dilution as a result of our outstanding stock options and our equity incentive programs We have adopted benefit plans for the compensation of our employees and directors under which options to purchase our stock and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) have been and may be granted. Options to purchase approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock were outstanding at December 31, 2007 of which approximately 3.1 million shares were exercisable. RSUs representing approximately 2.2 million shares were outstanding at December 31, 2007 all of which were unvested. The large number of shares issuable upon exercise of our options and other equity incentive grants to our employees could have a significant depressing effect on the market price of our stock and cause dilution to the earnings per share of our common stock. Risks Relating to the Review of Our Historical Equity-Based Compensation Practices The review of our historical equity-based compensation practices, together with the preparation of the restated financial restatements, has consumed a considerable amount of Board member and management time and caused us to incur substantial expenses The review conducted by our Audit Committee and related accounting and our own internal review of historical equity-based compensation practices and our preparation of restated Consolidated Financial Statements have required us to expend significant Board member and management time, and to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. These reviews and the preparation of our financial statements has required numerous meetings of the Audit Committee, the full Board and members of our senior management and diverted attention from the operation of our business. In addition, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with these reviews, which have had and could continue to have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ongoing government inquiries relating to our historical equity-based compensation practices are time consuming and expensive and could result in fines and penalties Government authorities, including the SEC and the IRS, may conduct ongoing inquiries into our historical equity-based compensation practices. We have fully cooperated with all government authorities and intend to continue to do so. The period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional inquiries or other actions related to our historical equity-based compensation practices. These inquiries may require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and could result in actions seeking, among other things, the payment of fines and penalties. If we do not maintain compliance with the SEC reporting requirements and the NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted, which could, among other things, reduce the price and liquidity of our common stock Due to the review of our historical equity-based compensation practices and related accounting, we were not able to file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis and faced the possibility of delisting from NASDAQ. Upon the filing of this Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and March 31, 2008, we believe we will have returned to full compliance with SEC and NASDAQ filing requirements. However, if the SEC has comments on these reports (or other reports that we previously filed) that require us to file amended reports, or if we do not file future quarterly and annual reports on a timely basis, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market and would subsequently be transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink 17 Table of Contents Sheets.” The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets could have a material adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock, especially if investors sell our stock to comply with institutional ownership guidelines or to meet margin calls. Moreover, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to issue stock options or other equity awards to our employees or allow them to exercise their outstanding options or other equity awards, which could harm our ability to attract and retain key employees. We and our officers and directors have been named as parties to a class action lawsuit relating to our historical equity-based compensation practices and resulting restatements, and additional lawsuits may be filed in the future In connection with our historical equity-based compensation practices and resulting restatements, two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, certain of our current directors and officers and others. These two class action lawsuits have since been consolidated. There may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve this lawsuit. Although we expect the majority of expenses related to the class action lawsuit to be covered by insurance, there can be no assurance that all such expenses will be reimbursed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 