ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the information included in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2010. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Continued adverse conditions in the U.S. economy, and in particular the greater Chicago area, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Over the past three years, the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the economy in the Chicago area in particular has declined. A sustained deterioration in national or local economic conditions could result in, among other things, a continuation in the deterioration of our credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in even higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued, sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or in the Chicago-area markets has and may continue to cause a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer and/or an increase in the number of borrowers or other counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults would result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current and further deterioration in the housing market could cause continued increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and further depress our income and growth. As we have experienced during 2010, the volume and credit quality of our one-to-four family and multi-family residential mortgages and loans may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in unemployment, decreased or nonexistent housing price appreciation or increases in interest rates. These factors could reduce our earnings and consequently our financial condition because borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing our loans and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline and customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans, increase substantially our provision for losses on loans, or make fewer loans, which would reduce income. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • The credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • Changes in economic and industry conditions; • The duration of the loan; and • In the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, including a decline in real estate value. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which management believes is sufficient to absorb probable incurred credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. See “Item 1.—Business—Lending Activities—Allowance for Loan Losses.” The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. As a percentage of gross loans, the allowance was 3.62% at December 31, 2010. Over the past year, we substantially increased our allowance as a percentage of gross loans based on management’s analysis of our credit quality, including a significant increase in non-performing loans, a decrease in real estate values in our lending markets and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators would ever compel us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer. Our Company is highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices and enforcement actions. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe 19 Table of Contents or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to operate our business and result in damage to our reputation. Finally, any material failure to comply with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding or the Order to Cease and Desist, which we entered into with the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) in January 2011, could result in additional enforcement actions by the OTS. While the Company intends to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the MOU and the Order, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply fully, or that efforts to comply with the MOU and the Order will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company and the Bank. The impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, is expected to increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs of doing business and could result in enhanced capital and leverage requirements and restrictions on certain products and services we offer. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), a sweeping financial reform bill, was signed into law. This new law will result in a number of new regulations that potentially could impact community banks. The act includes, among other things, provisions establishing a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad authority to develop and implement rules regarding most consumer financial products; provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies; provisions that broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments and permanently increase FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; and new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. These provisions, or any other aspects of current proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to our business in order to comply, and could therefore also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation”. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the recent decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned, and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The interest rate environment over the last three years has continued to compress our net interest margin. Also, if market rates increase, we expect our net interest margin to continue to decrease. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment rates, money supply and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund our requirements. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers, including funding current loan commitments. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are our customers’ deposits, as well as Federal Home Loan Bank advances, amortization and prepayment of loans, maturities of investment securities and other short-term investments, and earnings and funds provided from operations. Across the banking industry, access to liquidity has tightened in the form of reduced borrowing lines and/or increased collateral requirements. To the extent our balance sheet (customer deposits and principal reductions on loans and securities) is not sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, we rely on alternative funding sources, which may be more expensive than organic sources. In the past, the Federal Home Loan Banks have provided cost-effective and convenient liquidity to many community banks, such as the Bank. However, current economic conditions have created earnings and capital challenges for some of the Federal Home Loan Banks that could limit (or preclude) their ability to provide adequate liquidity. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The FDIC sets the rates for deposit insurance premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund and may impose additional emergency special assessments to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. An increase in these rates will have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. We will incur additional expenses managing real estate acquired through foreclosure. We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on the property securing certain non-performing loans in our portfolio. These foreclosures may result in charge-offs and other expenses for items such as property management and legal fees, which will have a negative affect on future earnings. Future impairments may also occur if real estate values continue to decline. We will incur additional expenses related to the issuance of the Cease and Desist Order. We will incur additional expenses as a result of the Order to Cease and Desist that the Company entered into with the OTS on January 24, 2011. Certain operating costs tend to increase at financial institutions that are subject to Cease and Desist Orders issued by regulatory agencies. Such expenses include, but are not limited to, professional fees, such as legal, consulting and independent accountant’s fees; insurance, such as blanket bond and Directors and Officers liability insurance; regulatory costs, such as the FDIC insurance premiums and OTS assessments. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans and deposits in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, thrifts and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 