ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial-services companies routinely encounter and address risks and uncertainties. In the following paragraphs, the Company describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity), or prospects or the value of or return on an investment in the Company. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only ones faced by the Company. Other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Company, that it has failed to appreciate, or that it currently consider immaterial may adversely affect the Company as well. Except where otherwise noted, the descriptions here address risks and certainties that may affect the Company as well as its 11 Table of Contents subsidiaries. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis (which can be found in Item 7 of this report beginning on page 20) and its Consolidated Financial Statements (which can be found in Item 8 of this report beginning on page 56). The levels of or changes in interest rates could affect the Company’s business. The Compnay’s business, results of operations, and financial condition are highly dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are influenced by monetary and fiscal policies, general economic conditions, the regulatory environment, competitive pressures, and expectations about future changes in interest rates. The policies and regulations of the FRB, in particular, have a substantial impact on market rates of interest. See “Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies” in Part I, Item 1. The Company may be adversely affected by policies, regulations, or events that have the effect of altering the difference between long-term and short-term interest rates (commonly known as the yield curve), depressing the interest rates associated with its earning assets to levels near the rates associated with interest expense, or changing the relationship between different interest-rate indices. The Company’s customers and counterparties also may be negatively impacted by the levels of or changes in interest rates, which could increase the risk of delinquency or default on obligations to the Company. The levels of or changes in interest rates, moreover, may have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s investment portfolio and other financial instruments, the return on or demand for loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the cost or availability of deposits or other funding sources, or the purchase or sale of investment securities. In addition, a rapid change in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of differences in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. The level of and changes in market rates of interest—and, as a result, these risks and uncertainties—are beyond the Company’s control. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages interest-rate risk. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions could increase the Company’s credit risk and adversely affect its lending or other banking businesses and the value of its loans or investment securities. The Company’s business and results of operations depend significantly on general economic conditions. When those conditions are weak or deteriorating in any of the markets or regions where the Company operates, its business or results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s lending and other banking businesses, in particular, are susceptible to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, which could result in reduced loan demand or utilization rates and at the same time increased delinquencies or defaults. These kinds of conditions also could dampen the demand for products in the Company’s asset-management, insurance, brokerage, or related businesses. If delinquencies or defaults on the Company’s loans or investment securities increase, their value could be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that charge-offs exceed estimates, an increase to the amount of provision expense related to the allowance for loan losses would reduce its income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages credit risk. Challenging business, economic, or market conditions could adversely affect the Company’s fee-based banking, investment-management, asset-servicing, or other businesses. The Company’s fee-based banking, investment-management, asset-servicing, and other businesses are driven by wealth creation in the economy, robust market activity, fiscal stability, and positive investor, business, and consumer sentiment. Economic downturns, market disruptions, high unemployment or underemployment, unsustainable debt levels, depressed real-estate markets, or other challenging business, economic, or market conditions could adversely affect these businesses and their results. For example, if any of these conditions were to cause flows into or the fair value of assets held in the funds and accounts advised by Scout to weaken or decline, its revenue could be negatively impacted. If the funds or other groups that are clients of UMBFS were to encounter similar difficulties, its revenue also could suffer. The Company’s bank-card revenue is driven primarily by transaction volumes in business and consumer spending that generate interchange fees, and any of these conditions could dampen those volumes. Revenue from trading, asset management, custody, trust, cash and treasury management, and the Company’s other fee-based businesses could be adversely affected as well if any of these conditions were to occur or persist. 12 Table of Contents The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, and its business could be adversely affected by the regulatory and supervisory frameworks applicable to it, changes in those frameworks, and other regulatory risks and uncertainties. The Company is subject to expansive regulatory frameworks in the United States—at federal, State, and local levels—and in the foreign jurisdictions where its business segments operate. In addition, the Company is subject to the direct supervision of government authorities charged with overseeing the kinds of financial activities conducted by its business segments. Much in these regulatory and supervisory frameworks is designed to protect public or private interests that often are not aligned with those of its shareholders or nondeposit creditors. See “Regulation and Supervision” in Part I, Item 1. In the wake of the recent economic crisis, moreover, government scrutiny of all financial-services companies has been amplified, fundamental changes have been made to the banking, securities, and other laws that govern financial services (with the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III being two of the more prominent examples), and a host of related business practices have been reexamined and reshaped. These seismic shifts in the financial-services industry have yet to slow in an appreciable way, and as a result, the Company expects to continue devoting increased time and resources to risk management, compliance, and regulatory change management. All of this could have a detrimental impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. Risks also exist that government authorities could judge the Company’s business or other practices unfavorably and bring formal or informal corrective or enforcement actions against it—including fines or other penalties and directives to change its products or services—that, for practical or other reasons, the Company could not resist and that also could give rise to litigation by private plaintiffs. These and other regulatory risks and uncertainties could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. The Company’s business relies on systems, employees, service providers, and counterparties, and failures by any of them or other operational risks could adversely affect the Company. We engage in a variety of businesses in diverse markets and rely on systems, employees, service providers, and counterparties to properly process a high volume of transactions. This gives rise to meaningful operational risk—including the risk of fraud by employees or outside parties, unauthorized access to its premises or systems, errors in processing, failures of technology, breaches of internal controls or compliance safeguards, inadequate integration of acquisitions, human error, and breakdowns in business continuity plans. Significant financial, business, reputational, regulatory, or other harm could come to the Company as a result of these or related risks and uncertainties. For example, the Company could be negatively impacted if financial, accounting, data-processing, or other systems were to fail or not fully perform their functions. The Company also could be adversely affected if key personnel or a significant number of employees were to become unavailable due to a pandemic, natural disaster, war, act of terrorism, accident, or other reason. These risks arise as well with the systems and employees of the service providers and counterparties on whom we depend as well as with their third-party service providers and counterparties. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages operational risk. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company collects, stores, and transmits sensitive, confidential, or proprietary data and other information, including intellectual property, business information, and the personally identifiable information of its customers and employees. The secure processing, storage, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to the Company’s operations and reputation, and if any of this information were mishandled, misused, improperly accessed, or lost, the Company could suffer significant financial, business, reputational, regulatory, or other damage. For example, despite security measures, the Company’s information technology and infrastructure may be breached in cyber-attacks, by computer viruses or malware, or with other means. A breach also could occur due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Even when an attempted breach is successfully avoided or thwarted, the Company may need to expend substantial resources in doing so and may be required take actions that could adversely affect customer satisfaction or behavior. If a breach were to occur, moreover, the Company could be exposed to regulatory actions or litigation by private plaintiffs. Despite the Company’s efforts to ensure the integrity of systems and controls, it may not be able to anticipate or implement effective measures to prevent all security breaches or all risks to the sensitive, confidential, or proprietary information that it collects, stores, or transmits. 13 Table of Contents Negative publicity outside of the Company’s control or its failure to successfully manage issues arising from its conduct or in connection with the financial-services industry generally could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its business. The performance and value of the Company’s business could be negatively impacted by any reputational harm that it may suffer. This harm could arise from negative publicity outside of its control or its failure to adequately address issues arising from its conduct or in connection with the financial-services industry generally. Risks to the Company’s reputation could arise in any number of contexts—for example, continuing government responses to the recent economic crisis, cyber-attacks and security breaches, mergers and acquisitions, lending practices, actual or potential conflicts of interest, failures to prevent money laundering, and corporate governance. The Company’s faces intense competition from other financial-services companies, and competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company faces intense competition in each of its business segments and in all of its markets and geographic regions, and the Company expects competitive pressures only to intensify in the future—especially in light of legislative and regulatory initiatives arising out of the recent economic crisis, technological innovations that alter the barriers to entry, current economic and market conditions, and government monetary and fiscal policies. See “Competition” in Part I, Item 1. Competitive pressures may drive the Company to take actions that it might otherwise eschew, such as lowering the interest rates on loans or raising the interest rates on deposits in order to keep or attract high-quality customers. These pressures also may accelerate actions that it might otherwise elect to defer, such as investments in technology or infrastructure. Whatever the reason, actions that it takes in response to competition may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. This result could be exacerbated if the Company is not successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, developing and maintaining a strong customer base, or prudently managing expenses. The Company’s risk-management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss. The Company maintains an enterprise risk-management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor, report, and control the risks that it faces. These include interest-rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and compliance and litigation risk. While the Company assesses and improves this program on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its approach and framework for risk management and related controls will effectively mitigate risk and limit losses in its business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in the Company’s risk-management program or if its controls break down, the performance and value of its business could be adversely affected. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business, and it could be adversely affected by constraints in or increased costs for funding. Liquidity is the ability to fund increases in assets and meet obligations as they come due, all without incurring unacceptable losses. Banks are especially vulnerable to liquidity risk because of their role in the maturity transformation of demand or short-term deposits into longer-term loans or other extensions of credit. The Company, like other financial-services companies, relies to a significant extent on external sources of funding (such as deposits and borrowings) for the liquidity needed in the conduct of its business. A number of factors beyond the Company’s control, however, could have a detrimental impact on the level or cost of that funding and thus on its liquidity. These include market disruptions, changes in its credit ratings or the sentiment of its investors, the loss of substantial deposit relationships, and reputational damage. Unexpected declines or limits on the dividends declared and paid by the Company’s subsidiaries also could adversely affect its liquidity position. While the Company’s policies and controls are designed to ensure that it maintains adequate liquidity to conduct its business in the ordinary course even in a stressed environment, there can be no assurance that its liquidity position will never become compromised. In such an event, the Company may be required to sell assets at a loss in order to continue its operations. This could damage the performance and value of its business, prompt regulatory intervention, and harm its reputation, and if the condition were to persist for any appreciable period of time, its viability as a going concern could be threatened. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Liquidity Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages liquidity risk. 14 Table of Contents An inability to attract, retain, or motivate qualified employees could adversely affect the Company’s business. Skilled employees are the Company’s most important resource, and competition for talented people is intense. Even though compensation is among the Company’s highest expenses, it may not be able to hire the best people, keep them with the Company, or properly motivate them to perform at a high level. Recent scrutiny of compensation practices, especially in the financial-services industry, has made this only more difficult. In addition, some parts of its business are particularly dependent on key personnel, including investment management, asset servicing, and commercial lending. If the Company were to lose and find itself unable to replace these personnel or other skilled employees or if the competition for talent drove its compensation costs to unsustainable levels, the business, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The Company is subject to a variety of litigation or other proceedings, which could adversely affect its business. The Company is involved from time to time in a variety of judicial, alternative-dispute, or other proceedings arising out of its business or operations. The Company establishes reserves for claims when appropriate under generally accepted accounting principles, but costs often can be incurred in connection with a matter before any reserve has been created. In addition, the actual costs associated with resolving a claim may be substantially higher than amounts that the Company has reserved. Substantial legal claims could have a detrimental impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition and cause reputational harm. Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s financial statements and reported earnings. Accounting standard-setting bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that affect the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes are beyond the Company’s control and could have a meaningful impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Company’s management’s selection of accounting methods, assumptions, and estimates could impact its financial statements and reported earnings. To comply with generally accepted accounting principles, management must sometimes exercise judgment in selecting, determining, and applying accounting methods, assumptions, and estimates. This can arise, for example, in determining the allowance for loan losses or the fair value of assets or liabilities. The judgments required of management can involve difficult, subjective, or complex matters with a high degree of uncertainty, and several different judgments could be reasonable under the circumstances and yet result in significantly different results being reported. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7. If management’s judgments later prove to have been inaccurate, we may experience unexpected losses that could be substantial. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC required to be disclosed herein as of the date of this Form 10-K. 