ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial services companies routinely encounter and address risks. Some risks may give rise to occurrences that cause the Company’s future results to be materially different than what companies presently anticipate. In the following paragraphs, the Company describes its current view of certain important strategic risks, although the risks below are not the only risks the Company faces. If any such risks actually materialize, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be affected materially and adversely. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with management’s discussion and analysis, beginning on page 19 hereof, and the consolidated financial statements, beginning on page 53 hereof. Changes in interest rates could affect results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s net income is based on the difference between interest earned on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, such as general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board. For example, policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board influence, directly and indirectly, the rate of interest paid by commercial banks on interest-bearing deposits and also may affect the value of financial instruments held by the Company. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also determine to a significant degree the cost of funds for lending and investing. In addition, these policies and conditions can adversely affect customers and counterparties, which may increase the risk that such customers or counterparties default on their obligations. Changes in interest rates greatly affect the amount of income earned and the amount of interest paid. Changes in interest rates also affect loan demand, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase and sale of investment bonds and the generation and retention of customer deposits. A rapid increase in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of differences in maturities of assets and liabilities. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages interest rate risk. General economic conditions could materially impair customers’ ability to repay loans, harm operating results and reduce the volume of new loans. The U.S. and the world economies impact how financial instruments are priced. Profitability depends significantly on economic conditions. Economic downturns or recessions, either nationally, internationally or in the states within the Company’s footprint, could materially reduce operating results. An economic downturn could negatively impact demand for loan and deposit products, the demand for insurance and brokerage products and the amount of credit related losses due to customers who cannot pay interest or principal on their loans. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed estimates, an increase to the amount of provision expense related to the allowance for loan losses would reduce income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages credit risk. General economic conditions, such as a stock market decline, could materially impair the number of investors in the equity and bond markets, the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services. Economic downturns or recessions could affect the volume of income from and demand for other fee-based services. The fee revenue from asset management segments including income from Scout Investments, Inc. and UMB Fund Services, Inc. subsidiaries, are largely dependent on both inflows to, and the fair value of, assets invested in the Scout Funds and the fund clients to whom the Company provides services. General economic conditions can affect investor sentiment and confidence in the overall securities markets which could adversely affect asset values, net flows to these funds and other assets under management. Bankcard revenues are dependent on transaction volumes from consumer and corporate spending to generate interchange fees. Depressed economic conditions could negatively affect the amount of such fee income. The Company’s banking services group is affected by corporate and consumer demand for debt securities which can be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions. The Company is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that 11 Table of Contents govern most aspects of its operations. Laws and regulations, and in particular banking, securities and tax laws, are under intense scrutiny because of the current economic crisis and may change from time to time. Changes in laws and regulations, lawsuits or actions by regulatory agencies could require the Company to devote significant time and resources to compliance efforts and could lead to fines, penalties, judgments, settlements, withdrawal of certain products or services offered in the market or other adverse results which could affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause serious reputational harm. Reliance on systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely affect operations. The Company is dependent on its ability to process a large number of transactions. If any of the financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Company could be adversely affected. The Company is similarly dependent on its employees. The Company could be adversely affected if a significant number of employees are unavailable due to a pandemic, natural disaster, war, act of terrorism, or other reason, or if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error, purposeful sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of operations or systems. Third parties with which the Company does business could also be sources of operational risk, including break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of the Company to operate, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could have an adverse impact on the Company. Operational risk also includes the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions into existing charters as an acquired entity will most likely be on a different system. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages operational risk. In the ordinary course of our business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business. In addition, there is the risk that controls and procedures, as well as business continuity and data security systems, may prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect operations and could adversely affect results of operations by requiring the Company to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing the Company to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. In addition, there is the risk that controls and procedures, as well as business continuity and data security systems, may prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect operations and could adversely affect results of operations by requiring the Company to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing the Company to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. If the Company does not successfully handle issues that may arise in the conduct of its business and operations, the Company’s reputation could be damaged, which could in turn negatively affect its business. The Company’s ability to attract and retain customers and transact with the Company’s counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent its reputation is damaged. The failure of the Company to deal with various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, recordkeeping, sales and trading practices and proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in its products. The failure to appropriately address these issues could make clients unwilling to do business with the Company, which could adversely affect results. 12 Table of Contents The Company faces strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect revenue and profitability. In addition to the challenge of competing against local, regional and national banks in attracting and retaining customers, the Company’s competitors also include brokers, mortgage bankers, mutual fund sponsors, securities dealers, investment advisors and specialty finance and insurance companies. The financial services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so. The Company competes on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. The Company may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices on products and services or increasing rates paid on deposits. The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company. The Company’s risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage risk exposure. Types of risk to which the Company is subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, price risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, compliance and litigation risk, foreign exchange risk, reputation risk, and fiduciary risk, among others. Although management continually monitors, evaluates, and updates the Company’s risk management framework and the Board oversees the Company’s overall risk management strategy, there can be no assurance that the Company’s framework to manage risk, including such framework’s underlying assumptions, will be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If the Company’s risk management framework proves ineffective, it could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s businesses and the Company relies on the securities market and other external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. Liquidity affects the Company’s ability to meet financial commitments. Liquidity could be negatively affected should the need arise to increase deposits or obtain additional funds through borrowing to augment current liquidity sources. Factors beyond the Company’s control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the general financial services industry, could impair the Company’s access to funding. If the Company is unable to raise funding using the methods described above, it would likely need to sell assets, such as its investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. The Company may be unable to sell some of its assets on a timely basis, or it may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect its results of operations. Liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If the liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, the Company may be unable to access sufficient financing to service its financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Liquidity Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages liquidity risk. Inability to hire or retain qualified employees could adversely affect the Company’s performance. The Company’s people are its most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. Employee compensation is the Company’s greatest expense. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as its loan and deposit portfolios, investment management function and asset servicing function .The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect its results of operations. If compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become unreasonably expensive, the Company’s performance, including its competitive position, could be adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards affecting the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These changes are not within the Company’s control and could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. The Company is subject to a variety of litigation which may affect its business, operating results and reputation. The Company and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation. This 13 Table of Contents litigation can include class action litigation concerning servicing processes or fees or charges, or employment practices, and potential reductions in fee revenues resulting from such litigation. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Substantial legal liability could materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business. Future events may be different than those anticipated by management assumptions and estimates, which may cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to current Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the Company is required to use certain estimates in preparing its financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine allowance for loan losses, and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Should the Company’s determined values for such items prove inaccurate, the Company may experience unexpected losses which could be material. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC required to be disclosed herein as of the date of this Form 10-K. 