ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the following factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect its stock price. A global market crisis and related economic recession may affect FactSet’s revenues and liquidity Since September 1, 2008, major equity indices (e.g., Dow Jones Industrials, Russell 1000, MSCI EAFE, S&P 500 and NASDAQ Composite) have experienced declines greater than 25% coupled with increased levels of volatility. Since January 1, 2008 this decline has been greater than 35%. A prolonged decline in equity indices of developed markets could impact the size and buying power of many of FactSet’s clients. FactSet derives 79% of its revenues from investment management clients. The prosperity of these clients is tied to equity assets under management (“AUM”). An equity market decline not only depresses AUM but can cause a significant increase in redemption requests to move money out of equities and into other asset classes. Moreover, extended declines in the equity markets may reduce new fund or client creation resulting in certain investment management clients to cancel products. While increased use of FactSet services among hedge funds is not a significant driver of FactSet’s recent revenue growth, FactSet does have more hedge fund clients today than three years ago. The recent steep decline in the equity markets could increase the normal rate of hedge fund closures and increase asset redemption rates in the near term. Many hedge funds rely on performance fees and utilize leverage. The cost of capital (leverage) has spiked as evidenced by the LIBOR rates doubling since September 2008. In addition, the rate of closure related to small hedge funds may increase if they were relying on performance fees to cover operating costs FactSet’s sell-side clients account for 21% of its revenues. A significant portion of these revenues relate to services deployed by large, bulge bracket banks. The credit crisis that began in August 2007 has deepened and continues to plague many of the Company’s large banking clients due to the amount of leverage deployed in past operations. Clients such as Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Wachovia recently were purchased by other firms as their viability as a stand-alone entities came under question. More FactSet clients could encounter similar problems. The recent lack of confidence in the global banking system has frozen credits markets and caused declines in merger and acquisitions funded by debt. It is unknown how long credit markets will remain dysfunctional. FactSet services equity research and M&A departments. These are low risk businesses that do not deploy leverage and will likely continue to operate far into the future and should represent a large percentage of the overall revenues of FactSet clients. Regardless, the size of banks in general is shrinking as they delever their balance sheets and adjust their expense base to future revenue opportunities. FactSet revenues may decline if banks including those involved in recent merger activity significantly reduce headcount in the areas of corporate M&A and equity research to compensate for the problems created by other departments that over extended the available capital of banks. Historically, the correlation between the results of FactSet’s operations and the performance of the global equity markets has not been one to one. Regardless of the market cycle, FactSet has consistently grown revenues, including every quarter sequentially for the past 20 years (including the last 12 years as a public company). Today, FactSet’s market opportunity is 15 times its current size even if the global equity markets which it services shrinks by 15%. Difficult market conditions may increase the value of FactSet’s ability to consolidate services, including deploying Marquee, and may help advance the sales of proprietary content when FactSet is the low cost provider. FactSet must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to maintain its leading technological position The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products, or product enhancements, that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s 7 Table of Contents new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and the Company’s new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. In addition, the Company’s ability to develop new products and product enhancements is dependent upon the products of other software vendors, including certain system software vendors, database vendors and development tool vendors. If the products of such vendors have design defects or flaws, are unexpectedly delayed in their introduction, or are unavailable on acceptable terms, the Company’s business could be seriously harmed. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data Many of FactSet’s products and services, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including client portfolios. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, misappropriation of client data by an employee or an external third party could occur, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of the Company’s security measures could expose FactSet, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to the company’s brand and reputation. A prolonged or recurring outage at one of FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to rapidly and efficiently process substantial volumes of data and transactions on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to seek to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. In addition, FactSet maintains insurance for some such events. However, the insurance FactSet carries is likely not to be sufficient to compensate the Company fully for losses or damages that may occur as a result of such material events. In addition, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers. Any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective. FactSet’s ability to integrate and market FactSet Fundamentals as a high quality asset and win new clients FactSet Fundamentals is projected to be dilutive to earnings per share in fiscal 2009 and accretive in fiscal 2010. In order to ensure accuracy of these estimates, FactSet must build on a collection operation offshore to populate the FactSet Fundamentals database. This complex process involves hiring, training and retaining approximately 500 employees and successfully deploying collection software and processes purchased from Thomson Reuters. In addition, FactSet must be able to market and sell FactSet Fundamentals to new and existing clients. FactSet’s ability to integrate newly acquired companies FactSet has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions from time to time. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into FactSet’s operations, and there can be no assurances that FactSet will manage acquisitions successfully. The related risks include the Company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business. Under generally accepted accounting principles, FactSet reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in its industry. FactSet may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an impact on its results of operations. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing databases or products As a leading provider of global financial and economic information, FactSet relies on its ability to combine more than 500 data sets into its own dedicated online service. FactSet’s business employs a wide variety of data from a substantial number of data suppliers around the world. Certain of the Company’s products rely on single or limited number of suppliers, although FactSet makes every effort to assure that alternative sources are available if the need arises. The failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. 8 Table of Contents Exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact FactSet’s financial results and cash flows Because approximately 34% of FactSet’s employees and over 25% of its leased office space are located outside the U.S., the Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on its financial results and cash flows. Historically, the Company’s primary exposures have related to non-dollar denominated sales and expenses in Europe and Japan. This exposure has increased during fiscal 2008 as compared to the year ago period primarily because the percentage of FactSet revenues invoiced and paid in non-U.S. dollars has decreased due to the conversion of historical JCF Euro-based paying clients to U.S. dollar-based clients. A decrease in the value of the dollar, increases operating expenses. From time to time, FactSet enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. FactSet’s attempt to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Increased competition in FactSet’s industry that may cause price reductions or loss of market share FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products. Its competitors range in size from multi-billion dollar companies to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. While the Company believes the breadth of its businesses and product portfolio offers benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with FactSet. In addition, barriers to entry to create a single purpose product are generally low. The internet as a distribution channel and non-commercial software model described above has reduced barriers to entry even further. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Weak economic conditions also can result in clients’ seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. FactSet’s ability to achieve its historical levels of profitability and growth rates for revenues, earnings per share and cash flows FactSet has established revenues, earnings per share and cash flow growth targets for fiscal 2009. Its growth is dependent upon successfully executing its strategy. The Company’s initiatives and investments may not be sufficient to achieve and maintain such growth targets. A failure to reach and maintain its desired revenue growth or its earnings per share growth targets could have a material adverse affect on the market value of its common stock. Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require the Company to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, require FactSet to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue making significant expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk. FactSet defends its intellectual property rights and combats unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of its rights is difficult. While these activities adversely affect U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. could be more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel FactSet’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. The Company is limited in its ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. Resolution of ongoing and other probable audits by tax authorities FactSet is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of its business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, 9 Table of Contents regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the Company’s result of operations and financial condition in future periods. FactSet is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although FactSet believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on its provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on its income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. FactSet’s future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where the Company has lower statutory rates, and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where FactSet has higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Changes in accounting may affect FactSet’s reported earnings and operating income Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of its business are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in accounting rules, their interpretation, or changes in the Company’s products or business could significantly change its reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, FactSet uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management’s knowledge of current events and actions that FactSet may undertake in the future. Significant estimates have been made in areas that include income and other taxes, useful lives of fixed assets and intangibles, accrued liabilities, accrued compensation, stock-based compensation, receivable reserves, contingent liabilities and allocation of purchase price to assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, FactSet makes certain estimates under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore actual results may differ. Internal controls may be ineffective Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, FactSet is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in its implementation, its business and operating results could be harmed, FactSet could fail to meet its reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on its stock price. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On September 12, 2008, FactSet received a comment letter from the staff of the SEC (the “Staff”) in response to the Company’s confidential treatment request relating to the purchase agreement for Thomson Fundamentals submitted on July 11, 2008. The Company submitted a response to the Staff on September 25, 2008. On October 22, 2008, FactSet received a second letter from the Staff, seeking additional clarification concerning its responses. The Company is in the process of responding and resolving the Staff comments mentioned in this second letter. The ultimate resolution of these comments will not effect FactSet’s financial position and results of operations, but will require the Company to file an amendment to its Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2008 to disclose some formerly redacted details of the transaction. 