Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for historical information contained herein, the discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding timing and results of clinical trials, the establishment of corporate partnering arrangements, the anticipated commercial introduction of our products and the timing of our cash requirements. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those mentioned in this report and in particular the factors described below. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early-stage company. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities present in an early-stage company. All of our potential products are in an early stage of research or development. Our potential drug delivery products require extensive research, development and pre-clinical and clinical testing. Our potential products also may involve lengthy regulatory reviews before they can be sold. Because none of our product candidates has yet received approval by the FDA, we cannot assure you that our research and development efforts will be successful, any of our potential products will be proven safe and effective or regulatory clearance or approval to sell any of our potential products will be obtained. We cannot assure you that any of our potential products can be manufactured in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost or marketed successfully. We may abandon the development of some or all of our product candidates at any time and without prior notice. We must incur substantial up-front expenses to develop and commercialize products and failure to achieve commercial feasibility, demonstrate safety, achieve clinical efficacy, obtain regulatory approval or successfully manufacture and market products will negatively impact our business. We recently changed our product development strategy, and if we do not successfully implement this new strategy our business and reputation will be damaged. Since our inception in 1991, we have focused on developing drug delivery technologies to be partnered with other companies. In May 2006, we began transitioning our business focus from the development of delivery technologies to the application of our pulmonary drug delivery technologies and expertise to the development of novel drug products to treat or prevent respiratory diseases. As part of this transition we have implemented workforce reductions in an effort to reduce our expenses and improve our cash flows. We are in the early stages of implementing various aspects of our new strategy, and we may not be successful in implementing our new strategy. Even if we are able to implement the various aspects of our new strategy, it may not be successful. We will need additional capital, and we may not be able to obtain it. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash and have generated no product revenues. While our refocused development strategy will reduce capital expenditures, we expect negative operating cash flows to continue for at least the foreseeable future. Even though we do not plan to engage in drug discovery, we will nevertheless need to commit substantial funds to develop our product candidates and we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our progress in the application of our delivery and formulation technologies, which may require further refinement of these technologies; • the number of product development programs we pursue and the pace of each program; • our progress with formulation development; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time and costs associated with seeking regulatory approvals; 20 Table of Contents • our ability to outsource the manufacture of our product candidates and the costs of doing so; • the time and costs associated with establishing in-house resources to market and sell certain of our products; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with others and the terms of those arrangements; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims, and • our need to acquire licenses, or other rights for our product candidates. Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements and public offerings of our capital stock, proceeds from equipment lease financings, contract research funding and interest earned on investments. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments at December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to fund operations at least through the end of 2008. We will need to obtain substantial additional funds before we would be able to bring any of our product candidates to market. Our estimates of future capital use are uncertain, and changing circumstances, including those related to implementation of our new development strategy or further changes to our development strategy, could cause us to consume capital significantly faster than currently expected, and our expected sources of funding may not be sufficient. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product development programs and reduce personnel-related costs, or to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. If we are able to obtain funds through the issuance of debt securities or borrowing, the terms may restrict our operations. If we are able to obtain funds through the issuance of equity securities, your interest will be diluted and our stock price may drop as a result. We have a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for at least the foreseeable future, and we may never attain or maintain profitability. We have never been profitable and have incurred significant losses in each year since our inception. As of December 31, 2007, we have an accumulated deficit of $312.1 million. We have not had any product sales and do not anticipate receiving any revenues from product sales for at least the next few years, if ever. While our recent shift in development strategy may result in reduced capital expenditures, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses over at least the next several years as we: • expand drug product development efforts; • conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials; • pursue additional applications for our existing delivery technologies; • outsource the commercial-scale production of our products; and • establish a sales and marketing force to commercialize certain of our proprietary products if these products obtain regulatory approval. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must, alone or with others, successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell our products. We expect to incur substantial expenses in our efforts to develop and commercialize products and we may never generate sufficient product or contract research revenues to become profitable or to sustain profitability. Our dependence on collaborators may delay or terminate certain of our programs, and any such delay or termination would harm our business prospects and stock price. Our commercialization strategy for certain of our product candidates depends on our ability to enter into agreements with collaborators to obtain assistance and funding for the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Collaborations may involve greater uncertainty for us, as we have less control over certain aspects of our collaborative programs than we do over our proprietary development and commercialization programs. We may determine that continuing a collaboration under the terms provided is not in our best 21 Table of Contents interest, and we may terminate the collaboration. Our existing collaborators could delay or terminate their agreements, and our products subject to collaborative arrangements may never be successfully commercialized. For example, Novo Nordisk has control over and responsibility for development and commercialization of the AERx iDMS program. In January 2008, Novo Nordisk announced that it was terminating the AERx iDMS program. If, due to delays or otherwise, we do not receive development funds or achieve milestones set forth in the agreements governing our collaborations, or if any of our collaborators breach or terminate their collaborative agreements or do not devote sufficient resources or priority to our programs, our business prospects and our stock price would suffer. Further, our existing or future collaborators may pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, and the priorities or focus of our collaborators may shift such that our programs receive less attention or resources than we would like. Any such actions by our collaborators may adversely affect our business prospects and ability to earn revenues. In addition, we could have disputes with our existing or future collaborators regarding, for example, the interpretation of terms in our agreements. Any such disagreements could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of any potential products or could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration, which may not be resolved in our favor. Even with respect to certain other programs that we intend to commercialize ourselves, we may enter into agreements with collaborators to share in the burden of conducting clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing our product candidates or products. In addition, our ability to apply our proprietary technologies to develop proprietary drugs will depend on our ability to establish and maintain licensing arrangements or other collaborative arrangements with the holders of proprietary rights to such drugs. We may not be able to establish such arrangements on favorable terms or at all, and our existing or future collaborative arrangements may not be successful. The results of later stage clinical trials of our product candidates may not be as favorable as earlier trials and that could result in additional costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our products. Although we believe the limited and preliminary data we have regarding our potential products is encouraging, the results of initial preclinical testing and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that we will get from subsequent or more extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials. Clinical trials of our product candidates may not demonstrate that they are safe and effective to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. Many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after receiving promising results in earlier trials. If we cannot adequately demonstrate through the clinical trial process that a therapeutic product we are developing is safe and effective, regulatory approval of that product would be delayed or prevented, which would impair our reputation, increase our costs and prevent us from earning revenues. If our clinical trials are delayed because of patient enrollment or other problems, we would incur additional cost and postpone the potential receipt of revenues. Before we or our collaborators can file for regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our potential products, the FDA will require extensive preclinical safety testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Completing clinical trials in a timely manner depends on, among other factors, the timely enrollment of patients. Our collaborators’ and our ability to recruit patients depends on a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the existence of competing clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment in our current or future clinical trials may result in increased costs, program delays, or both, and the loss of potential revenues. We are subject to extensive regulation, including the requirement of approval before any of our product candidates can be marketed. We may not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. We, our collaborators and our products are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local government agencies. Both before and after regulatory approval, the development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, 22 Table of Contents promotion, sale, distribution and export of our potential products are subject to regulation. Pharmaceutical products that are marketed abroad are also subject to regulation by foreign governments. Our products cannot be marketed in the United States without FDA approval. The process for obtaining FDA approval for drug products is generally lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To date, we have not sought or received approval from the FDA or any corresponding foreign authority for any of our product candidates. Even though we intend to apply for approval of most of our products in the United States under Section 505(b)(2) of the United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which applies to reformulations of approved drugs and that may require smaller and shorter safety and efficacy testing than that for entirely new drugs, the approval process will still be costly, time-consuming and uncertain. We, or our collaborators, may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our potential products. Even if granted, regulatory approvals may include significant limitations on the uses for which products may be marketed. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, imposition of civil penalties or other monetary payments, delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recall or seizure, operating restrictions, interruption of clinical trials or manufacturing, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Regulatory authorities may not approve our product candidates even if the product candidates meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials or the approvals may be too limited for us to earn sufficient revenues. The FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies can delay approval of, or refuse to, approve our product candidates for a variety of reasons, including failure to meet safety and efficacy endpoints in our clinical trials. Our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Even if a product candidate is approved, it may be approved for fewer or more limited indications than requested or the approval may be subject to the performance of significant post-marketing studies. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Any limitation, condition or denial of approval would have an adverse affect on our business, reputation and results of operations. Even if we are granted initial FDA approval for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain such approval, which would reduce our revenues. Even if we are granted initial regulatory approval for a product candidate, the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies can limit or withdraw product approvals for a variety of reasons, including failure to comply with regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory requirements, problems with manufacturing facilities or processes or the occurrence of unforeseen problems, such as the discovery of previously undiscovered side effects. If we are able to obtain any product approvals, they may be limited or withdrawn or we may be unable to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements. Both before and after approval we, our collaborators and our products are subject to a number of additional requirements. For example, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, certain manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims are subject to additional FDA review and approval. Advertising and other promotional material must comply with FDA requirements and established requirements applicable to drug samples. We, our collaborators and our manufacturers will be subject to continuing review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other authorities, where applicable, and must comply with ongoing requirements, including the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, requirements. Once the FDA approves a product, a manufacturer must provide certain updated safety and efficacy information, submit copies of promotional materials to the FDA and make certain other required reports. Product approvals may be withdrawn if regulatory requirements are not complied with or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. Any limitation or withdrawal of approval of any of our products could delay or prevent sales of our products, which would adversely affect our revenues. Further continuing regulatory requirements involve expensive ongoing monitoring and testing requirements. 23 Table of Contents Since one of our key proprietary programs, the ARD-3100 liposomal ciprofloxacin program, relies on the FDA’s granting of orphan drug designation for potential market exclusivity, the product may not be able to obtain market exclusivity and could be barred from the market for up to seven years. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for our proprietary liposomal ciprofloxacin for the management of cystic fibrosis. Orphan drug designation is intended to encourage research and development of new therapies for diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 patients in the United States. The designation provides the opportunity to obtain market exclusivity for seven years from the date of the FDA’s approval of a new drug application, or NDA. However, the market exclusivity is granted only to the first chemical entity to be approved by the FDA for a given indication. Therefore, if another inhaled ciprofloxacin product were to be approved by the FDA for a cystic fibrosis indication before our product, then we may be blocked from launching our product in the United States for seven years, unless we are able to demonstrate to the FDA clinical superiority of our product on the basis of safety or efficacy. We may seek to develop additional products that incorporate drugs that have received orphan drug designations for specific indications. In each case, if our product is not the first to be approved by the FDA for a given indication, we will be unable to access the target market in the United States, which would adversely affect our ability to earn revenues. We have limited manufacturing capacity and will have to depend on contract manufacturers and collaborators; if they do not perform as expected, our revenues and customer relations will suffer. We have limited capacity to manufacture our requirements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We intend to use contract manufacturers to produce key components, assemblies and subassemblies in the clinical and commercial manufacturing of our products. We may not be able to enter into or maintain satisfactory contract manufacturing arrangements. Specifically, our agreement with an affiliate of Novo Nordisk to supply devices and dosage forms to us for use in the development of our products that incorporate our proprietary AERx technology expired on January 27, 2008. We may not be able to extend this agreement at satisfactory terms, if at all, and we may not be able to find a replacement contract manufacturer at satisfactory terms. We may decide to invest in additional clinical manufacturing facilities in order to internally produce critical components of our product candidates and to handle critical aspects of the production process, such as assembly of the disposable unit-dose packets and filling of the unit-dose packets. If we decide to produce components of any of our product candidates in-house, rather than use contract manufacturers, it will be costly and we may not be able to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner or in compliance with regulatory requirements. With respect to some of our product development programs targeted at large markets, either our collaborators or we will have to invest significant amounts to attempt to provide for the high-volume manufacturing required to take advantage of these product markets, and much of this spending may occur before a product is approved by the FDA for commercialization. Any such effort will entail many significant risks. For example, the design requirements of our products may make it too costly or otherwise infeasible for us to develop them at a commercial scale, or manufacturing and quality control problems may arise as we attempt to expand production. Failure to address these issues could delay or prevent late-stage clinical testing and commercialization of any products that may receive FDA approval. Further, we, our contract manufacturers and our collaborators are required to comply with the FDA’s GMP requirements that relate to product testing, quality assurance, manufacturing and maintaining records and documentation. We, our contract manufacturers or our collaborators may not be able to comply with the applicable GMP and other FDA regulatory requirements for manufacturing, which could result in an enforcement or other action, prevent commercialization of our product candidates and impair our reputation and results of operations. We rely on a small number of vendors and contract manufacturers to supply us with specialized equipment, tools and components; if they do not perform as we need them to, we will not be able to develop or commercialize products. We rely on a small number of vendors and contract manufacturers to supply us and our collaborators with specialized equipment, tools and components for use in development and manufacturing processes. These vendors may not continue to supply such specialized equipment, tools and components, and we may not be able to find 24 Table of Contents alternative sources for such specialized equipment and tools. Any inability to acquire or any delay in our ability to acquire necessary equipment, tools and components would increase our expenses and could delay or prevent our development of products. In order to market our proprietary products, we are likely to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We have no experience in these areas, and if we have problems establishing these capabilities, the commercialization of our products would be impaired. We intend to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to market products to concentrated, easily addressable prescriber markets. We have no experience in these areas, and developing these capabilities will require significant expenditures on personnel and infrastructure. While we intend to market products that are aimed at a small patient population, we may not be able to create an effective sales force around even a niche market. In addition, some of our product development programs will require a large sales force to call on, educate and support physicians and patients. While we intend to enter into collaborations with one or more pharmaceutical companies to sell, market and distribute such products, we may not be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all. Any collaborations we do enter into may not be effective in generating meaningful product royalties or other revenues for us. If any products that we or our collaborators may develop do not attain adequate market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients, our business prospects and results of operations will suffer. Even if we or our collaborators successfully develop one or more products, such products may not be commercially acceptable to healthcare professionals and patients, who will have to choose our products over alternative products for the same disease indications, and many of these alternative products will be more established than ours. For our products to be commercially viable, we will need to demonstrate to healthcare professionals and patients that our products afford benefits to the patient that are cost-effective as compared to the benefits of alternative therapies. Our ability to demonstrate this depends on a variety of factors, including: • the demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; • the existence, prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages compared to alternative treatments; • the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; • the relative cost, convenience, product dependability and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • the sufficiency of coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by governmental and other third-party payors; and • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Our product revenues will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, the products we or our collaborators are able to commercialize do not gain significant market acceptance. We depend upon our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to protect our potential competitive proprietary advantage. Our business and competitive position is dependent upon our and our collaborators’ ability to protect our proprietary technologies related to various aspects of pulmonary drug delivery and drug formulation. While our intellectual property rights may not provide a significant commercial advantage for us, our patents and know-how are intended to provide protection for important aspects of our technology, including methods for aerosol generation, devices used to generate aerosols, breath control, compliance monitoring, certain pharmaceutical formulations, design of dosage forms and their manufacturing and testing methods. In addition, we are maintaining as non-patented trade secrets some of the key elements of our manufacturing technologies, for example, those associated with production of disposable unit-dose packets for our AERx delivery system. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to compete effectively will also depend to a significant extent on our and our collaborators’ ability to obtain and enforce patents and maintain trade secret protection over our proprietary technologies. The coverage claimed in a patent application typically is significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in the United States or abroad. Consequently, any of our pending or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents and any patents issued may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may in any event not contain claims broad enough to provide meaningful protection. Any patents that are issued to us or our collaborators may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage, and may be circumvented or invalidated. In addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. Further, because development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of products. In July 2006, we assigned 23 issued United States patents to Novo Nordisk along with corresponding non-United States counterparts and certain related pending applications. In August 2006, Novo Nordisk brought suit against Pfizer, Inc. claiming infringement of certain claims in one of the assigned United States patents. In December 2006, Novo Nordisk’s motion for a preliminary injunction in this case was denied. Subsequently, Novo Nordisk and Pfizer settled this litigation out of court. This and other patents assigned to Novo Nordisk may become the subject of future litigation. The patents assigned to Novo Nordisk encompass, in some instances, technology beyond inhaled insulin and, if all or any of these patents are invalidated, it could harm our ability to obtain market exclusivity with respect to other product candidates. We may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and any litigation could force us to stop developing or selling potential products and could be costly, divert management attention and harm our business. We must be able to develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. Because the markets in which we operate involve established competitors with significant patent portfolios, including patents relating to compositions of matter, methods of use and methods of drug delivery, it could be difficult for us to use our technologies or develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to design around the patented technologies or inventions of others and we may not be able to obtain licenses to use patented technologies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, we will not earn product revenues. If we are required to defend ourselves in a lawsuit, we could incur substantial costs and the lawsuit could divert management’s attention, regardless of the lawsuit’s merit or outcome. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process and any license required under any such patent may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Periodically, we review publicly available information regarding the development efforts of others in order to determine whether these efforts may violate our proprietary rights. We may determine that litigation is necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Such litigation could result in substantial expense, regardless of its outcome, and may not be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending patent applications may become subject to dispute, and any disputes could be resolved against us. For example, Eli Lilly and Company brought an action against us seeking to have one or more employees of Eli Lilly named as co-inventors on one of our patents. This case was determined in our favor in 2004, but we may face other similar claims in the future and we may lose or settle cases at significant loss to us. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are currently maintained in secrecy for a period of time prior to issuance, patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. 26 Table of Contents We are in a highly competitive market, and our competitors have developed or may develop alternative therapies for our target indications, which would limit the revenue potential of any product we may develop. We are in competition with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and drug delivery companies, hospitals, research organizations, individual scientists and nonprofit organizations engaged in the development of drugs and therapies for the disease indications we are targeting. Our competitors may succeed before we can, and many already have succeeded, in developing competing technologies for the same disease indications, obtaining FDA approval for products or gaining acceptance for the same markets that we are targeting. If we are not “first to market,” it may be more difficult for us and our collaborators to enter markets as second or subsequent competitors and become commercially successful. We are aware of a number of companies that are developing or have developed therapies to address indications we are targeting, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Bayer, Eli Lilly, Genentech, Gilead Sciences, Merck & Co., Novartis and Pfizer. Certain of these companies are addressing these target markets with pulmonary products that are similar to ours. These companies and many other potential competitors have greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, financial and managerial resources and experience than we have and many of these companies may have products and product candidates that are on the market or in a more advanced stage of development than our product candidates. Our ability to earn product revenues and our market share would be substantially harmed if any existing or potential competitors brought a product to market before we or our collaborators were able to, or if a competitor introduced at any time a product superior to or more cost-effective than ours. If we do not continue to attract and retain key employees, our product development efforts will be delayed and impaired. We depend on a small number of key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified marketing, management, manufacturing, engineering and development personnel. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in our industry, we face intense competition in our recruiting activities, and we may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. Losing any of our key employees, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Igor Gonda, who plays a central role in our strategy shift to a specialty pharmaceutical company, could impair our product development efforts and otherwise harm our business. Any of our employees may terminate their employment with us at will. Acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies could result in operating difficulties and harm our results of operations. While we have not identified any definitive targets, we may acquire products, businesses or technologies that we believe are complementary to our business strategy. The process of investigating, acquiring and integrating any business or technology into our business and operations is risky and we may not be able to accurately predict or derive the benefits of any such acquisition. The process of acquiring and integrating any business or technology may create operating difficulties and unexpected expenditures, such as: • diversion of our management from the development and commercialization of our pipeline product candidates; • difficulty in assimilating and efficiently using the acquired assets or personnel; and • inability to retain key personnel. In addition to the factors set forth above, we may encounter other unforeseen problems with acquisitions that we may not be able to overcome. Any future acquisitions may require us to issue shares of our stock or other securities that dilute the ownership interests of our other shareholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume liabilities, including contingent or unknown liabilities, or incur additional expenses related to write-offs or amortization of intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. 27 Table of Contents If we market our products in other countries, we will be subject to different laws and we may not be able to adapt to those laws, which could increase our costs while reducing our revenues. If we market any approved products in foreign countries, we will be subject to different laws, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights and regulatory approval. To maintain a proprietary market position in foreign countries, we may seek to protect some of our proprietary inventions through foreign counterpart patent applications. Statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the United States. The diversity of patent laws may make our expenses associated with the development and maintenance of intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions more expensive than we anticipate. We probably will not obtain the same patent protection in every market in which we may otherwise be able to potentially generate revenues. In addition, in order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we and our collaborators must obtain required regulatory approvals from foreign regulatory agencies and comply with extensive regulations regarding safety and quality. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such jurisdictions and we may have to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining any foreign regulatory approvals. If approvals to market our products are delayed, if we fail to receive these approvals, or if we lose previously received approvals, our business would be impaired as we could not earn revenues from sales in those countries. We may be exposed to product liability claims, which would hurt our reputation, market position and operating results. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates in humans and will face an even greater risk upon commercialization of any products. These claims may be made directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products. We may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims would likely result in negative publicity, decreased demand for any products that we may develop, injury to our reputation and suspension or withdrawal of clinical trials. Any such claim will be very costly to defend and also may result in substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or customers, loss of revenues and the inability to commercialize products that we develop. Although we currently have product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain such insurance or obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms, in amounts sufficient to protect our business, or at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we cannot arrange for adequate third-party reimbursement for our products, our revenues will suffer. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our potential products will depend in substantial part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the adequate reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Any products we are able to successfully develop may not be reimbursable by third-party payors. In addition, our products may not be considered cost-effective and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. If any products we develop do not receive adequate reimbursement, our revenues will be severely limited. Our use of hazardous materials could subject us to liabilities, fines and sanctions. Our laboratory and clinical testing sometimes involve use of hazardous and toxic materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing how we use, manufacture, handle, store and dispose of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with all federal, state and local regulations and standards, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages 28 Table of Contents that result and such liability could exceed our financial resources. Compliance with environmental and other laws may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our development or commercialization efforts. If we are unable to effectively implement or maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results and our stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also currently requires our independent registered public accounting firm, beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, to attest to, and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirements will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our company. We expect these systems and controls to involve significant expenditures and to become increasingly complex as our business grows and to the extent that we make and integrate acquisitions. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is likely to remain volatile. The market prices for securities of many companies in the drug delivery and pharmaceutical industries, including ours, have historically been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Prices for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • investor perception of us; • research analyst recommendations and our ability to meet or exceed quarterly performance expectations of analysts or investors; • failure to maintain existing or establish new collaborative relationships; • fluctuations in our operating results; • market conditions relating to our segment of the industry or the securities markets in general; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • publicity regarding actual or potential developments relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • delays in the development or approval of our product candidates; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • concern of the public or the medical community as to the safety or efficacy of our products, or products deemed to have similar safety risk factors or other similar characteristics to our products; • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • future sales or expected sales of substantial amounts of common stock by shareholders; • our ability to raise financing; and • economic and other external factors. 29 Table of Contents In the past, class action securities litigation has often been instituted against companies promptly following volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation instigated against us would, regardless of its merit, result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market; this delisting may reduce the liquidity of our common stock and the price may decline. On November 10, 2006, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market due to non-compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing standards. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. This delisting may reduce the liquidity of our common stock, may cause investors not to trade in our stock and may result in a lower stock price. In addition, investors may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions, which make it less likely that we would be acquired and that you would receive a premium price for your shares. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California Corporations Code could discourage a party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow our board of directors to authorize the issuance, without shareholder approval, of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the California Corporations Code, which requires us to provide a fairness opinion to our shareholders in connection with their consideration of any proposed “interested party” reorganization transaction. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill.” We have also adopted an Executive Officer Severance Plan and a Form of Change of Control Agreement, both of which may provide for the payment of benefits to our officers in connection with an acquisition. The provisions of our articles of incorporation, our poison pill, our severance plan and our change of control agreements, and provisions of the California Corporations Code may discourage, delay or prevent another party from acquiring us or reduce the price that a buyer is willing to pay for our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for at least the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for at least the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for at least the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 