ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following paragraphs discuss certain factors that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. For the purposes of the following paragraphs, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to NCEH. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report. The risks set forth below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important or impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline and the likelihood of there being any potential return to stockholders would diminish. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE HARMED AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN ISSUES RELATING TO THE SETTLEMENT OF THE DAVIS LITIGATON, INCLUDING IF WE DO NOT COLLECT A RECEIVABLE FROM OUR INSURANCE CARRIER WITH RESPECT TO DEFENSE COSTS. As discussed in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings", on August 11, 2004, Craig Davis, allegedly a stockholder of the Company, filed a lawsuit in the Chancery Court of New Castle County, Delaware. The lawsuit asserted direct claims, and also derivative claims on the Company's behalf, against five former and three current directors of the Company. On April 13, 2006, we announced that we reached an agreement with all of the parties to the lawsuit to settle all claims relating thereto. On July 25, 2006, the Settlement became final and non-appealable. In connection with the resolution of the Lawsuit, the Company ceased funding of legal and professional fees of the current and former director defendants. The funding of legal and professional fees was made pursuant to indemnification arrangements that were in place during the respective terms of each of the defendants. We have met the $500,000 retention as stipulated in our directors' and officers' liability insurance policy. The directors' and officers' liability insurance policy carries a maximum coverage limit of $5,000,000. As of December 31, 2006, we have recorded a receivable from the insurance carrier of approximately $300,000 for reimbursement of legal and professional fees incurred in excess of the policy retention, net of the $600,000 reimbursement from the insurance carrier as part of the Settlement. We are currently negotiating a settlement with the insurance carrier with respect to remaining reimbursement amounts. We are vigorously pursuing enforcement of our rights under the policy. Nonpayment of the claim for reimbursement of legal and professional fees could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Company. The Settlement does not preclude us from seeking reimbursement of legal and professional fees up to the amount remaining within the policy limit. 7 The Settlement provides that, if the Company has not acquired a business that generates revenues by the date of March 1, 2007, the plaintiff maintains the right to pursue a claim to liquidate the Company. This custodian claim was one of several claims asserted in the Lawsuit. Even if such a claim is elected to be pursued, there is no assurance that it will be successful. In addition, the Company believes that it has preserved its right to assert that the Ascendant investment meets the foregoing requirement to acquire a business. THE SEC OR A COURT MAY TAKE THE POSITION THAT THE COMPANY WAS PREVIOUSLY IN VIOLATION OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940. Among the claims filed by Mr. Davis is a claim that the Company operated as an illegal investment company in violation of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act"). Although we do not believe that we have violated the Investment Company Act in the past, or at present, there can be no assurance that we have not, or are not, in violation of, the Investment Company Act. In the event the SEC or a court took the position that we were an investment company, our failure to register as an investment company would not only raise the possibility of an enforcement or other legal action by the SEC and potential fines and penalties, but also could threaten the validity of corporate actions and contracts entered into by us during the period we were deemed to be an unregistered investment company, among other remedies. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REDEPLOY OUR ASSETS SUCCESSFULLY. As part of our strategy to limit operating losses and enable us to redeploy our assets and use our cash and short-term investment assets to enhance stockholder value, we are pursuing a strategy of identifying suitable acquisition candidates, merger partners or otherwise developing new business operations. We may not be successful in acquiring such a business or in operating any business that we acquire, merge with or develop. Although we made an investment in Ascendant, we may not be successful in investing in or acquiring other businesses. Failure to redeploy our assets successfully will prevent us from becoming profitable. Future cash expenditures are expected to consist of funding corporate expenses, the cost associated with maintaining a public company and expenses incurred in pursuing and operating new business activities, during which time operating losses are likely to be generated. ANY ACQUISITIONS THAT WE ATTEMPT OR COMPLETE COULD PROVE DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE OR REQUIRE A SUBSTANTIAL COMMITMENT OF MANAGEMENT TIME AND OTHER RESOURCES. Our strategy of acquiring other businesses involves a number of unique risks including: (i) completing due diligence successfully; (ii) exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and (iii) increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits. We may be unable to address these problems successfully. Moreover, our future operating results will depend to a significant degree on our ability to integrate acquisitions (if any) successfully and manage operations while also controlling our expenses. We may be unable to select, manage or absorb or integrate any future acquisitions successfully, particularly acquisitions of large companies. Any acquisition, even if effectively integrated, may not benefit our stockholders. THE SUCCESS OF THE INVESTMENT IN ASCENDANT WILL BE IMPACTED BY THE GROWTH OF ITS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT AND THE SUCCESS OF THE PERFORMANCE OF ITS UNDERLYING FUNDS, EACH OF WHICH MAY BE IMPACTED BY THE SECURITIES MARKETS. The operations of Ascendant will be affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. Declines in the securities markets, in general, and the equity markets, in particular, would likely reduce Ascendant's assets under management and consequently reduce our revenues. In addition, any continuing decline in the equity markets, failure of these markets to sustain their prior rates of growth, or continued volatility in these markets could result in investors withdrawing from the equity markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which would likely adversely affect Ascendant which, in turn, could impair our revenue interest. In addition, our decision not to make additional installment payments under the Ascendant Agreement, and thereby cease funding Ascendant, could have a material impact on Ascendant's operations if Ascendant is unable to grow its assets under management in order to sustain itself and could cause Ascendant to take one or more of several actions, including to seek financial support from other sources and/or cease operations. 8 WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS OF OUR NET OPERATING LOSS ("NOL") AND CAPITAL LOSS CARRYFORWARDS. NOLs and capital losses may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income and capital gains, respectively, in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income and capital gains, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL and capital loss carryforwards, if fully utilized, could provide a benefit to us of future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income and capital gains. If we do not have sufficient taxable income and capital gains in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL and capital loss carryforwards, permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOL and capital loss carryforwards will depend largely on our success in identifying suitable merger partners and/or acquisition candidates, and once identified, consummating a merger with and/or acquisition of these candidates. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, the NOL and capital loss carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income and capital gain that may be offset by our NOL and capital loss generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we would be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL and capital loss carryforwards to offset taxable income and capital gains. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent shareholders" (within the meaning of Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code) whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent shareholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date, is more than 50 percentage points. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent shareholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated, together as a single, public group "5-percent shareholder," regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation's stock. The amount of NOL and capital loss carryforwards that we have claimed have not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL and capital loss or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL and capital loss to offset taxable income and capital gains in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOL and capital loss carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. ANY TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS IMPLEMENTED BY THE COMPANY TO PRESERVE OUR NOL MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE OR MAY HAVE SOME UNINTENDED NEGATIVE EFFECTS. The board of directors previously adopted an amendment to our former Shareholders Rights Plan ("Rights Plan") which reduced the triggering of the Rights Plan from 15% of the Common Stock to 5% of the Common Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the board of directors replaced this Rights Plan with a new plan with the same lowered 5% threshold. This 5% threshold was adopted to help preserve our NOL and capital loss carryforwards. There is no guarantee that the new Rights Plan will prevent a stockholder from acquiring more than 5% of the Common Stock. 9 Any transfer restrictions will require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in the Company to seek the approval of our board of directors. This may have an "anti-takeover" effect because our board of directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of capital stock that a stockholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management. Additionally, because transfer restrictions will have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to dispose of or acquire our Common Stock, the liquidity and market value of our Common Stock might suffer. OUR COMMON STOCK IS ILLIQUID. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB"), and has traded as low as $0.15 per share during 2006. Since our Common Stock was delisted from a national exchange and is trading at a price below $5.00 per share, it is subject to certain other rules of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock". "Penny stock" is defined as any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market before entering into any penny stock transaction. Disclosure is also required to be made about compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. The rules also impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Common Stock. This could severely limit the market liquidity of our Common Stock and the ability of a stockholder to sell the Common Stock. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL WHOM WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HIRE ENOUGH ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO MEET OUR GROWING NEEDS. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services and on the performance of our officers and directors. Our performance also depends on our ability to attract, hire, retain, and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our key personnel and currently have no "Key Man" life insurance policies. Our future success may also depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel are intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. THE ASSETS ON OUR BALANCE SHEET INCLUDE A REVENUE INTEREST IN ASCENDANT, AND ANY IMPAIRMENT OF THE REVENUE INTEREST COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. As of December 31, 2006, our total assets were approximately $13,490,000 of which approximately $803,000 were intangible assets relating to the revenue interest in Ascendant. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. If we were to record an impairment charge for the intangible asset, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 