ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business The Bank has entered into a Consent Order and a Written Agreement with bank regulatory agencies and certain terms of that order may not be met. On July 2, 2010, TIB Bank entered into a Consent Order, a formal agreement, with bank regulatory agencies under which, among other things, the Bank has agreed to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8% of total assets and a total risk based capital ratio of at least 12%. At December 31, 2010, the Bank was in compliance with these elevated capital ratios. The Consent Order also governs certain aspects of the Bank’s operations including a requirement that it reduce the balance of assets classified substandard and doubtful by at least 70% over a two-year period, and not undertake asset growth of 5% or more per year without prior approval from the regulatory agencies. The Consent Order supersedes the Memorandum of Understanding entered into with regulatory agencies on July 2, 2009. While the Company and the Bank intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the Written Agreement and Consent Order, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Written Agreement or that the Bank will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Consent Order, that compliance with the Written Agreement and Consent Order will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, that compliance with the Written Agreement and Consent Order will enable the Company and the Bank to continue profitable operations, or that efforts to comply with the Written Agreement and Consent Order will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company or the Bank. Even though the Company has completed the NAFH Investment, it cannot assure you whether or when the Written Agreement and Consent Order will be lifted or terminated. Even if they are lifted or terminated in whole or in part, the Company may still be subject to supervisory enforcement actions that restrict its activities. Recently enacted regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), which is perhaps the most significant financial reform since the Great Depression and contains numerous and wide-ranging reforms to the United States financial system. The Act contains many provisions which will affect institutions such as the Company and the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Consequently, compliance with the Act’s provisions may reduce the Company’s and the Bank’s revenue opportunities increase their operating costs, require them to hold higher levels of regulatory capital and/or liquidity and otherwise adversely affect their business or financial results in the future. The Company’s management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Act and assessing its probable impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and result of operations. However, because many aspects of the Act are subject to future rulemaking, it is difficult to precisely anticipate its overall impact, financially and otherwise, on the Company and the Bank at this time. We are not paying dividends on our common stock and are deferring distributions on our trust preferred securities, and we are restricted in otherwise paying cash dividends on our common stock. The failure to resume paying dividends on our trust preferred securities may adversely affect us. We historically paid cash dividends before we began making quarterly 1% stock dividends in lieu of cash dividend payments on our common stock from the second quarter of 2008 through the third quarter of 2009. During the third quarter of 2009, we began deferring dividend payments on our trust preferred securities and our preferred stock pursuant to the adoption of a board resolution requiring 30 day advance notice to and written approval from the Federal Reserve Bank prior to making any dividend payments. There is no assurance that we will receive approval to resume paying cash dividends. All dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and are dependent upon our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, regulatory capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Further, distributions on our trust preferred securities are cumulative and therefore unpaid distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent dividend payment date. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009 as market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. The FDIC collected a prepayment of insurance premiums for 2010, 2011 and 2012 plus the fourth quarter 2009’s premium in December 2009. The prepayment was $10.9 million. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC is implementing changes to the calculation of deposit insurance premiums. The assessment base will be equal to average total assets less Tier 1 capital. Assessment rates will initially range between an annualized 2.5 and 45 basis points. Assessment rates will decrease if the FDIC’s reserve ratio increases to certain thresholds. 14 Our loan portfolio includes commercial and real estate loans that have higher risks. The Bank’s commercial, commercial real estate and construction and vacant land loans at December 31, 2010, were $60.6 million, $612.5 million and $39.0 million, respectively, or 6%, 61% and 4% of total loans. Commercial, commercial real estate and construction and vacant land loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by the Bank’s customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, the Bank may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Bank knew of, or was responsible for, the contamination. During 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies released guidance on “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending” (the “Guidance”). The Guidance defines commercial real estate loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when commercial real estate loan concentrations exceed either: • total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank’s total capital; or • total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank’s total capital. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation or resale of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Bank may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. Over the past 36 months, each of these four factors has decreased. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenged, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have recently experienced economic contraction, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified markets and economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We may face risks with respect future expansion or acquisitions. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to valuation risk, integration risk and management resources. On March 11, 2011, NAFH disclosed that it is seeking regulatory approval to combine its three banks, Capital Bank, TIB Bank and NAFH National Bank and that it may also seek to combine its holding companies (the Company, NAFH, and Capital Bank Corporation). No assurances can be given that applicable regulatory approvals will be obtained, that the transactions described above will be consummated, or if consummated, as to the timing, price, structure or other terms of the transactions. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. 15 Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a less expensive and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and assets under management, and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, regulatory scrutiny, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock may result in an other than temporary impairment charge. We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or FHLB, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. As a FHLB member, we are required to own FHLB common stock, the amount of which increases with the level of our FHLB borrowings. Due to weak financial results, the FHLB has substantially reduced the payment of dividends. The FHLB has also suspended daily repurchases of FHLB common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of these shares. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock was $9.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Consequently, there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock NAFH is a controlling shareholder and may have interests that differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Upon completion of the NAFH Investment and shareholder rights offering and before accounting for any stock that may subsequently be issued pursuant to the Warrant, NAFH owned approximately 94% of the Company’s outstanding voting power. As a result, NAFH will be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval. Such transactions may include mergers and acquisitions (which may include mergers of the Company and/or its subsidiaries with or into NAFH and/or NAFH's other subsidiaries), sales of all or some of the Company's assets (including sales of such assets to NAFH and/or NAFH's other subsidiaries) or purchases of assets from NAFH and/or NAFH's other subsidiaries, and other significant corporate transactions. On March 11, 2011, NAFH disclosed that it is seeking regulatory approval to combine its three banks, Capital Bank, TIB Bank and NAFH National Bank and that it may also seek to combine its holding companies (the Company, NAFH, and Capital Bank Corporation). No assurances can be given that applicable regulatory approvals will be obtained, that the transactions described above will be consummated, or if consummated, as to the timing, price, structure or other terms of the transactions. Five of our seven directors, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, and our Chief Risk Officer are affiliates of NAFH. NAFH also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of NAFH may differ from those of our other shareholders, and it may take actions that advance its interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. Additionally, NAFH is in the business of making investments in or acquiring financial institutions and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. NAFH may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to the other holders of our common stock, and the trading prices of our common stock may be adversely affected by the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 17 As a controlled company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. The Company’s common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires independent director oversight over the nominating and executive compensation functions. However, under the rules applicable to the NASDAQ, if another company owns more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. The Company is a controlled company because NAFH beneficially owns more than 50% of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, the Company is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements and its shareholders may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. We may choose to voluntarily delist our common stock from NASDAQ or cease to be a reporting issuer under SEC rules. We may choose to, or our majority shareholder NAFH may cause us to, voluntarily delist from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we were to delist from NASDAQ, we may or may not list ourselves on another exchange, and may or may not be required to continue to file periodic and current reports and other information as a reporting issuer under SEC rules. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact shareholders by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, reducing information available about the Company on an ongoing basis and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. In addition, if we were to delist from NASDAQ, we would no longer be subject to any of the corporate governance rules applicable to NASDAQ listed companies. See also “—As a controlled company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.” Future issuance or sales of our common stock or other securities, including through exercise of NAFH’s Warrant, will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. NAFH received, in connection with the Investment, a warrant representing the right to purchase, during the 18-month period following the closing of the Investment, up to 11,666,667 shares of our common stock at $15.00 per share. If it does so, whether in part or in full, shareholders other than NAFH will suffer dilution of their common shares. Further, although we presently do not have any intention of issuing additional common stock apart from the issuances contemplated by the Investment, we may do so in the future in order to meet our capital needs and regulatory requirements, and will be able to do so without shareholder approval, up to the newly increased number of authorized shares. Our board of directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other preferred securities including securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, subject to limitations imposed by the NASDAQ and the Federal Reserve Board. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable preferred securities by us in the future may result in a reduction of the per share book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable preferred securities will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. Resales of our common stock or other securities in the public market may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our shareholders (including NAFH), or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Pursuant to the Company’s investment agreement with NAFH, we have agreed to provide customary registration rights for the shares of common stock issued to NAFH and NAFH can exercise those rights in order to sell additional shares of our common stock at its discretion. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Market conditions and other factors may affect the value of our common stock. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including: • conditions in the regional and national credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • market interest rates; • the market for similar securities; • government action or regulation; • general economic conditions or conditions in the financial markets; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility; • our past and future dividend practice; and • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects. 18 The trading volume in our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The Nasdaq National Market during the 2010 was approximately 1,311 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with face values totaling $33.0 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. As discussed above, pursuant to the board resolution adopted on October 5, 2009, we began deferring interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures in October 2009. The Warrant and other potential issuances of equity securities may impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. We may issue and sell shares of preferred stock or common stock in the future, and such future issuances of equity could further impact the earnings per share available to our existing shareholders. Our earnings per share could also be diluted by the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant currently held by NAFH. As of December 31, 2010, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant would represent approximately 49% of our outstanding common shares. This percentage includes the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in our total outstanding shares. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, our shareholders may lose some or all of their investment in our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any written comments during 2010 from the Commission staff regarding our periodic and current reports under the Act that remain unresolved from any prior period. 19 