ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Information provided by the Company or its spokespersons, including information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may from time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning projected financial performance, market and industry sector growth, product development and commercialization or other aspects of future operations. Such statements will be based on the assumptions and expectations of the Company’s management at the time such statements are made. The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Potential Fluctuations in Operating Results. The Company may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. Fluctuations may be caused by many factors including, but not limited to, the timing of new product releases or product enhancements by the Company or its competitors; the size and timing of individual orders, including a fluctuation in the demand for and the ability to complete large contracts; software errors or other product quality problems; competition and pricing changes; customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; changes in demand for the Company’s products; changes in operating expenses; changes in the mix of software license and maintenance and service revenue; personnel changes; and general economic conditions. A substantial portion of the Company’s operating expenses is related to personnel, facilities and marketing programs. The level of personnel and related expenses cannot be adjusted quickly and is based, in significant part, on the Company’s expectation for future revenue. The Company does not typically experience significant order backlog. Further, the Company has often recognized a substantial portion of its revenue in the last month of a quarter, with this revenue frequently concentrated in the last weeks or days of a quarter. During certain quarterly periods, the Company has been dependent upon receiving large orders of perpetual licenses involving the payment of a single up-front fee, and has shifted the business emphasis of its products to provide a collaborative solution to the Company’s customers. This emphasis has increased the Company’s average order size and the related sales cycle time for the larger orders. This shift may have the effect of increasing the volatility of the Company’s revenue and profit from period to period. As a result, product revenue in any quarter is substantially dependent upon sales completed in the latter part of that quarter, and revenue for any future quarter is not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy. Seasonal Variations. The Company’s business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from the slowdown during the summer months throughout the world, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company’s global customers. Economic Slowdown in Certain Sectors. The Company’s sales are based significantly on end user demand for products in key industrial sectors. Many of these sectors periodically experience economic declines. These economic declines may be exacerbated by other economic factors, such as the recent increase in global energy prices. These economic factors may adversely affect the Company’s business by extending sales cycles and reducing revenue. The Company has customers that supply a wide spectrum of goods and services in virtually all of the world’s major economic regions. The Company’s performance is materially impacted by general economic conditions and the performance of its customers. The Company’s management team forecasts macroeconomic trends and developments and integrates them through long-range planning into budgets, research and development strategies and a wide variety of general management duties. When forecasting future economic trends and technological developments, management does not have a comparative advantage. To the extent that the Company’s forecasts are in error by being overly optimistic or overly pessimistic about the performance of an economy or sector, the Company’s performance may be hindered because of a failure to properly match corporate strategy with economic conditions. Terrorist attacks, other increased global hostilities and natural disasters have, at times, contributed to widespread uncertainty and speculation in the world financial markets. This uncertainty and speculation may result in economic contraction and a related suspension or delay of purchasing by the Company’s customers. Stock Market and Stock Price Volatility. Market prices for securities of software companies have generally been volatile. In particular, the market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations as a result of factors affecting the Company, the software industry or the securities markets in general. Such factors include, but are not limited to, declines in trading price that may be triggered by the Company’s failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The Company cannot provide assurance that in such circumstances the trading price of the Company’s common stock will recover or that it will not experience a further decline. Moreover, the trading price could be subject to additional fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in the Company’s operating results, material announcements made by the Company or its competitors, conditions in the software industry generally or other events and factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. 10 Table of Contents Rapidly Changing Technology; New Products; Risk of Product Defects. The Company operates in an industry generally characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions that can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. A major factor in the Company’s future success will be its ability to anticipate technological changes and to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, enhancements to its existing products and new products to meet those changes. If the Company is unable to introduce new products and to respond quickly to industry changes, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The introduction and marketing of new or enhanced products require the Company to manage the transition from existing products in order to minimize disruption in customer purchasing patterns. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements, that its new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that it will successfully manage the transition from existing products. Software products as complex as those offered by the Company may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released, and the likelihood of errors is increased as a result of the Company’s commitment to accelerating the frequency of its product releases. There can be no assurance that errors will not be found in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. Any of these problems may result in the loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to the Company’s reputation or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Sales of New Products. The Company continues to develop and introduce new software products. Certain of these products require a higher level of sales and support expertise. The ability of the Company’s sales channel, particularly the indirect channel, to obtain this expertise and to sell the new product offerings effectively could have an impact on the Company’s sales in future periods. Additionally, royalties and engineering service engagements associated with the new software products may result in the Company’s cost of sales increasing as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Dependence on Channel Partners. The Company continues to distribute a meaningful portion of its products through its global network of independent, regional channel partners. The channel partners sell the Company’s software products to new and existing customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer consulting services and provide the first line of technical support. Consequently, in certain geographies, the Company is highly dependent upon the efforts of the channel partners. Difficulties in ongoing relationships with channel partners, such as failure to meet performance criteria or to promote the Company’s products as aggressively as the Company expects, and differences in the handling of customer relationships could adversely affect the Company’s performance. Additionally, the loss of any major channel partner for any reason, including a channel partner’s decision to sell competing products rather than the Company’s products, could have a material, adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the Company’s future success will depend substantially on the ability and willingness of its channel partners to continue to dedicate the resources necessary to promote the Company’s portfolio of products and to support a larger installed base of the Company’s products. If the channel partners are unable or unwilling to do so, the Company may be unable to sustain revenue growth. Currently the Company is partially protected from exchange rate fluctuations among the U.S. Dollar and other currencies as a result of its indirect third-party sales channel, which generally pays the Company in U.S. Dollars. The revenues and expenses associated with the Company’s international direct third-party sales channel are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations and, as a result, the Company’s future financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. Additionally, any future changes to the Company’s sales channel involving proportionally higher direct sales from international locations could result in additional exposure to the foreign currency exchange fluctuations. This exposure could adversely impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations in future periods. Competition. The Company continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company’s current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income. Dependence on Senior Management and Key Technical Personnel. The Company is highly dependent upon the ability and experience of its senior executives and its key technical and other management employees. The loss of these employees could adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct its operations. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with International Activities. A majority of the Company’s business comes from outside the United States. Risks inherent in the Company’s international business activities include imposition of government controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, products and services, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every foreign country in which the Company sells its products and services. The Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. As the Company continues to expand its direct sales presence in international regions, the portion of its revenue, expenses, cash, accounts receivable and payment obligations denominated in foreign currencies continues to increase. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates from time to time may affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, countries in certain international regions have periodically experienced weaknesses in their currency, banking and equity markets. These weaknesses could adversely affect consumer demand for the Company’s products and ultimately the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As the Company has grown, it has become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. An economic slowdown, globally or regionally, could cause many companies to delay or reduce technology purchases, which could impact the Company’s visibility into the closing of new business, as opposed to its recurring business. A slowdown could also contribute to reductions in sales, longer sales cycles and increased price pressure. Each of these items could adversely affect the Company’s sales in future periods. The Company has historically received significant tax benefits related to its export activities. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was signed into law and included replacement legislation for existing export benefits. The phase-out of the existing export benefits associated with the legislation is summarized as follows: Export Benefit Phase-out 2004 No effect 2005 80% of otherwise applicable benefits 2006 60% of otherwise applicable benefits 2007 - beyond Export benefits fully eliminated In addition to repealing the export tax benefits, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 provides significant tax relief for domestic manufacturers. Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, qualifying entities may deduct a certain percentage (as defined below) of the lesser of their qualified production activities income or their taxable income for a taxable year. The deduction, however, is limited to 50% of an employer’s W-2 wages for the tax year. Beginning in 2010, when the 9% deduction is fully phased in, corporations facing a marginal tax rate of 35% will be subject to an effective tax rate of 31.85% on qualifying income. Manufacturing Income Deduction Phase-in 2004 No effect 2005 - 2006 3% applicable deduction for qualified income 2007 - 2009 6% applicable deduction for qualified income 2010 - beyond 9% applicable deduction for qualified income In 2007, export benefits were fully phased out. In 2006, export benefits reduced the Company’s effective tax rate by 4.5%. The loss in export benefits during 2007 was partially replaced with an increased benefit for domestic production activities. Any other prospective changes regarding tax benefits associated with the Company’s export sales or other federal and state tax planning vehicles may adversely impact the Company’s effective tax rate and decrease its net income in future periods. 12 Table of Contents Dependence on Proprietary Technology. The Company’s success is highly dependent upon its proprietary technology. The Company generally relies on contracts and the laws of copyright and trade secrets to protect its technology. The Company maintains a trade secrets program, enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees and distributors, and limits access to and distribution of its software, documentation and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology by third parties, or that third parties will not be able to develop similar technology independently. Although the Company is not aware that any of its technology infringes upon the rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert technology infringement claims against the Company or that, if asserted, such claims will not prevail. Reliance on Perpetual Licenses. Although the Company has historically maintained stable recurring revenue from the sale of software lease licenses, software maintenance subscriptions and third party royalties, it also has relied on sales of perpetual licenses that involve payment of a single, up-front fee and that are more typical in the computer software industry. While revenue generated from software lease licenses, software maintenance subscriptions and third party royalties currently represents a portion of the Company’s revenue, to the extent that perpetual license revenue continues to represent a significant percentage of total revenue, the Company’s revenue in any period will depend increasingly on sales completed during that period. Risks Associated with Significant Sales to Existing Customers. A significant portion of the Company’s sales includes follow-on sales to existing customers that invest in the Company’s broad suite of engineering simulation software and services. If a significant number of current customers were to become dissatisfied with the Company’s products and services, or choose to license or utilize competitive offerings, the Company’s follow-on sales, and recurring lease and maintenance revenues, could be materially, adversely impacted, resulting in lower revenue, operating margins, net income and cash flows. Risks Associated with Acquisitions. The Company has consummated and may continue to consummate certain acquisitions, including the 2006 acquisition of Fluent, in order to support the Company’s long-term strategic direction, expand its customer base, provide greater scale to increase its investments in research and development to accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services or enhance its distribution channels. In the future, the Company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, the Company may not be able to complete the business combination on commercially acceptable terms. Business acquisitions may result in devotion of significant management and financial resources. In addition, for companies acquired, limited experience will exist for several quarters following the acquisition relating to how the acquired company’s sales pipelines will convert into sales or revenues and the conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different than the historical conversion rate. Because a substantial portion of the Company’s software license revenue is completed in the latter part of a quarter, and its cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls may have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. A delay in a small number of large new software license transactions could cause the Company’s quarterly software license revenues to fall significantly short of its predictions. Acquisitions present many risks, and the Company may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. An acquisition program is an important element of the Company’s corporate strategy. The difficulties of integrating companies and acquired assets include, among others: • Consolidating operations, where appropriate • Managing disparate benefit structures of acquired and existing subsidiaries • Integrating newly acquired businesses or product lines into a uniform financial reporting system • Coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions • Establishing or expanding sales, distribution and marketing functions in order to accommodate newly acquired businesses or product lines • Preserving important licensing, research and development, supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships • Minimizing diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns • Coordinating geographically separate organizations The Company expects to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. Risks that may be encountered in acquisitions include: • The acquisition may not further the Company’s business strategy, or the Company may pay more than it is worth. 13 Table of Contents • The Company may not realize the anticipated increase in its revenues if a larger-than-predicted number of customers decline to renew annual leases or maintenance or if the Company is unable to sell the acquired products to its customer base. • The Company may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with its existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. • The Company may incur unanticipated costs. • The Company may significantly increase its interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if it incurs debt to pay for an acquisition. • The Company may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products. • The Company may have multiple and overlapping product lines that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays. • The Company’s relationship with current and new employees, customers, partners and distributors could be impaired. • The Company may assume pre-existing contractual relationships that it otherwise would not have entered into and exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to the Company and disruptive to customers. • The Company may not be able to implement the appropriate controls and procedures to ensure that the acquired entity is in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). • The Company may not be able to ensure successful systems integration for both sales and financial applications. • The Company’s due diligence process may fail to identify technical problems, such as issues with the acquired company’s product quality, product architecture or unlicensed use of technology, including, for example, improperly incorporated open source code. • The Company may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in legal entity merger integration activities. • The Company may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures and accounting practices or internal controls. • The acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties. • The Company’s ongoing business may be disrupted and management’s attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues. • The Company may enter lines of business or geographies in which it has no or limited prior experience. • The Company may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws. • The Company may use significant amounts of its existing cash balances to complete the acquisition, thus reducing interest income and liquidity. • To the extent the Company issues a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. • Acquisitions may result in the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in a significant charge to earnings. These factors could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or number of acquisitions. Disruption of Operations or Infrastructure Failures. A significant portion of the Company’s software development personnel, source code and computer equipment is located at operating facilities in the United States, Canada, India and throughout Europe. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unforeseen catastrophe at any of these facilities could cause interruptions in the Company’s operations, services and product development activities. Additionally, if the Company experiences problems that impair its business infrastructure, such as a computer virus, telephone system failure or an intentional disruption of its information technology systems by a third party, these interruptions could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the ability to meet financial reporting timelines. Further, because the Company’s sales are not generally linear during any quarterly period, the potential adverse effects resulting from any of the events described above or any other disruption of the Company’s business could be accentuated if it occurs close to the end of a fiscal quarter. 14 Table of Contents Indebtedness Incurred in Connection with the Acquisition of Fluent Inc. In partial consideration for the Company’s acquisition of Fluent, the Company incurred long-term debt from committed bank financing of approximately $198 million. As of December 31, 2007, outstanding borrowings totaled $59.5 million. This indebtedness is material in relation to prior levels of indebtedness as the Company did not have any prior outstanding debt. The incurrence of indebtedness, among other things, could: • Make it difficult for the Company to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes • Limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, its business • Make the Company more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in its business If the Company incurs new indebtedness in the future, the related risks that it now faces could intensify. Whether the Company is able to make required payments on its outstanding indebtedness and to satisfy any other future debt obligations will depend on its future operating performance and its ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. Periodic Reorganization of Sales Force. The Company relies heavily on its direct sales force. From time to time, the Company reorganizes and makes adjustments to its sales force in response to such factors as management changes, performance issues, market opportunities and other considerations. These changes may result in a temporary lack of sales production and may adversely impact revenue in future quarters. There can be no assurance that the Company will not restructure its sales force in future periods or that the transition issues associated with such a restructuring will not recur. Third Party Royalty Agreements. The Company has agreements with third parties whereby it receives royalty revenues in return for the right of the third party to utilize the Company’s technology or embed the Company’s technology in the third party’s products. To the extent that the Company is unable to maintain these third party relationships, or that the third party is unsuccessful in selling the embedded products, there could be a material, adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Sales Forecasts. The Company makes many operational and strategic decisions based upon short- and long-term sales forecasts. The Company’s sales personnel continually monitor the status of all proposals, including the estimated closing date and the value of the sale, in order to forecast quarterly sales. These forecasts are subject to significant estimation and are impacted by many external factors. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending or economic factors could cause purchasing decisions to be delayed. A variation in actual sales activity from that forecasted could cause the Company to plan or to budget incorrectly and, therefore, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Income Tax Estimates. The Company makes significant estimates in determining its worldwide income tax provision. These estimates involve complex tax regulations in a number of jurisdictions across the Company’s global operations and are subject to many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. The final outcome of tax matters could be different than the estimates reflected in the historical income tax provision and related accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on income tax expense and net income in the period in which such determination is made. The amount of income tax paid by the Company is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. These audits often result in proposed assessments. The Company’s estimate for liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions is highly judgmental and actual future results may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s estimated tax liabilities, including estimates for uncertain tax positions, in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitations on potential assessments expire. As a result, the Company’s effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. The Company allocates a portion of its purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period the impairment is recorded. The Company has recorded significant deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets that are not deductible for tax purposes. These deferred tax liabilities are based on future statutory tax rates in the locations in which the intangible assets are recorded. Any future changes in statutory tax rates would be recorded as an adjustment to the deferred tax liabilities in the period the change is announced, and could have a material impact on the Company’s effective tax rate during that period. 15 Table of Contents Non-Income Based Taxes. As a multinational corporation, the Company is subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, withholding, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Company is regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities relating to the underlying tax as well as potential interest and penalties if the Company does not maintain compliance with the continuously changing rules and regulations. Acquisition activities increase the Company’s non-income tax exposures. Regulatory Compliance. Like all other public companies, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including those that require the Company to report on and receive a certification from its independent accounting firm regarding the Company’s internal controls. Compliance with these requirements causes the Company to incur additional expenses and causes management to divert time from the day-to-day operations of the Company. While the Company anticipates being able to fully comply with these internal control requirements, if it is not able to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley reporting or certification requirements relating to internal controls, the Company may be subject to sanction by the SEC or NASDAQ. The Company’s stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market; thus, the Company is subject to the ongoing financial and corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. While the Company anticipates being able to fully comply with these requirements, if it is not able to comply, the Company’s name may be published on NASDAQ’s daily Non-Compliant Companies list until NASDAQ determines that it has regained compliance or the Company no longer trades on NASDAQ. Governmental Revenue Sources. The Company’s sales to the United States Government must comply with the regulations set forth in the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties being assessed against the Company or an order preventing the Company from making future sales to the United States Government. Further, the Company’s international activities must comply with the export control laws of the United States, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a variety of other laws and regulations of the United States and other countries in which the Company operates. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In certain circumstances the United States government, state and local governments and their respective agencies and certain foreign governments may have the right to terminate these engagements at any time, without cause. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. The United States, European Union and certain other government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations. Similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. Additionally, government contracts may contain rights to audit and permit the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. Contingencies. The Company is involved in various investigations, claims and legal proceedings from time to time that arise in the ordinary course of its business activities. These proceedings currently include customary audit activities by various government authorities among other matters. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the Company. Changes in Existing Financial Accounting Standards or Taxation Rules. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practices could have a significant, adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or the manner in which the Company conducts its business. Further, such changes could potentially affect the Company’s reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, the Company was not previously required to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings in connection with stock option grants to its employees. However, the FASB issued a revised version of FASB Statement No. 123, “Share-Based Payment” (“Statement No. 123R”) that requires the Company to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings as of January 1, 2006. Such charges negatively impacted the Company’s earnings. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to certain market risks, primarily foreign currency exchange rates, that arise from transactions occurring in the normal course of business. The Company seeks to reduce these risks primarily through its normal operating and financing activities. 16 Table of Contents Financial Market Risk. Recently, the financial markets have experienced a decline as a result of the U.S. subprime mortgage market crisis. While the Company is not directly exposed to the credit and liquidity risks associated with subprime lending, adjustable rate mortgages or securities backed by these mortgages, a decline in the financial stability across a significant component of the Company’s customer base could hinder its ability to collect amounts due from customers and could result in lower demand for the Company’s products. In addition, the state of the financial markets could impact the Company’s ability to obtain future funding. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2007 that remain unresolved. 