ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the information included in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2009. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Continued adverse conditions in the U.S. economy, and in particular the greater Chicago area, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Over the past two years, the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the economy in the Chicago area in particular has declined. A sustained deterioration in national or local economic conditions could result in, among other things, a continuation in the deterioration of our credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in even higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued, sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or in the Chicago-area markets has and may continue to cause a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer and/or an increase in the number of borrowers or other counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults would result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current and further deterioration in the housing market could cause continued increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and further depress our income and growth. As we have experienced during 2009, the volume and credit quality of our one-to-four family and multi-family residential mortgages and loans may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in unemployment, decreased or nonexistent housing price appreciation or increases in interest rates. These factors could reduce our earnings and consequently our financial condition because borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing our loans and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline and customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans, increase substantially our provision for losses on loans, or make fewer loans, which would reduce income. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and 27 Table of Contents • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, including a decline in real estate value. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which management believes is sufficient to absorb probable incurred credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. See “Item 1.—Business—Lending Activities—Allowance for Loan Losses.” The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. As a percentage of gross loans, the allowance was 1.92% at December 31, 2009. Over the past year, we substantially increased our allowance as a percentage of gross loans based on management’s analysis of our credit quality, including a significant increase in non-performing loans, a decrease in real estate values in our lending markets and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators would ever compel us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the recent decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned, and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income 28 Table of Contents earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The interest rate environment over the last two years has continued to compress our net interest margin. Also, if market rates increase, we expect our net interest margin to continue to decrease. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment rates, money supply and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund our requirements. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers, including funding current loan commitments. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are our customers’ deposits, as well as Federal Home Loan Bank advances, amortization and prepayment of loans, maturities of investment securities and other short-term investments, and earnings and funds provided from operations. Across the banking industry, access to liquidity has tightened in the form of reduced borrowing lines and/or increased collateral requirements. To the extent our balance sheet (customer deposits and principal reductions on loans and securities) is not sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, we rely on alternative funding sources, which may be more expensive than organic sources. In the past, the Federal Home Loan Banks have provided cost-effective and convenient liquidity to many community banks, such as the Bank. However, current economic conditions have created earnings and capital challenges for some of the Federal Home Loan Banks that could limit (or preclude) their ability to provide adequate liquidity. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $412,000, including the special assessment of $101,000 recorded in June 2009 and paid on September 30, 2009. In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments, of up to five basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. 29 Table of Contents We will incur additional expenses managing real estate acquired through foreclosure. We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on the property securing certain non-performing loans in our portfolio. These foreclosures may result in charge-offs and other expenses for items such as property management and legal fees, which will have a negative affect on future earnings. Future impairments may also occur if real estate values continue to decline. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans and deposits in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, thrifts and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 