ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the following factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect its stock price. FactSet must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to maintain its leading technological position The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products, or product enhancements, that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and the Company’s new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. In addition, the Company’s ability to develop new products and product enhancements is dependent upon the products of other software vendors, including certain system software vendors, database vendors and development tool vendors. If the products of such vendors have design defects or flaws, are unexpectedly delayed in their introduction, or are unavailable on acceptable terms, the Company’s business could be seriously harmed. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data Many of FactSet’s products and services are comprised of information delivered through a variety of media, including the Internet, software-based applications and dedicated transmission lines. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, misappropriation of client data could incur, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. 6 A prolonged or recurring outage at one of FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to rapidly and efficiently process substantial volumes of data and transactions on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, Internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to seek to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. In addition, FactSet maintains insurance for some such events. However, the insurance FactSet carries may not be sufficient to compensate the Company fully for losses or damages that may occur as a result of such events. In addition, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers. Any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel FactSet’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. The Company is limited in its ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. FactSet’s ability to integrate newly acquired companies FactSet has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions from time to time. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into FactSet’s operations, and there can be no assurances that FactSet will manage acquisitions successfully. The related risks include the Company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business. Under generally accepted accounting principles, FactSet reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in its industry. FactSet may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an impact on its results of operations. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing databases or products As a leading provider of global financial and economic information, FactSet relies on its ability to combine more than 200 databases into its own dedicated online service. FactSet’s business employs a wide variety of data from a substantial number of data suppliers around the world. Certain of the Company’s products rely on single or limited number of suppliers, although FactSet makes every effort to assure that alternative sources are available if the need arises. The failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. Significant changes to the financial market conditions may affect FactSet’s revenues Future results could be materially adversely affected by poor performance of major financial markets, including the sub-prime market, as experienced in the summer of 2007 and reductions in expenditures by large clients. The target clients for FactSet products include a range of financial services organizations that manage investment portfolios, including asset managers, investment advisors, brokerage firms, banks, plan sponsors, hedge funds and others. The success of many of its clients is intrinsically linked to the health of the financial markets. FactSet believes that demand for its solutions could be disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the financial services industry, which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for investment management systems and software products. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenues, expenses, and financial condition. Uncertain economic conditions may affect FactSet’s revenues FactSet conducts significant sales and client support operations in countries outside of the United States. For fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, FactSet derived 30% and 28% of its revenue, respectively, from outside the United States. Accordingly, future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest, terrorist attacks, economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, which may affect 7 the Company’s ability to import its products from, export its products to, or sell its products in various countries; political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; health or similar issues, such as the outbreak of avian influenza; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. FactSet believes that demand for its solutions could be disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the economy, which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for investment management systems and software products. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenues, expenses, and financial condition. Increased competition in FactSet’s industry that may cause price reductions or loss of market share FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products. Its competitors range in size from Fortune 100 companies to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. While the Company believes the breadth of its businesses and product portfolio offers benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. In addition, barriers to entry to create a single purpose product are generally low. The internet as a distribution channel and non-commercial software model described above has reduced barriers to entry even further. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Weak economic conditions also can result in clients’ seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. FactSet’s ability to achieve its historical levels of profitability and growth rates for revenues, earnings per share and cash flows FactSet has established revenues, earnings per share and cash flow growth targets for fiscal 2008. Its growth is dependent upon successfully executing its strategy. The Company’s initiatives and investments may not be sufficient to achieve and maintain such growth targets. A failure to reach and maintain its desired revenue growth or its earnings per share growth targets could have a material adverse affect on the market value of its common stock. Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue making significant expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk. FactSet defends its intellectual property rights and combats unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of its rights is difficult. While these activities adversely affect U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. could be more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Resolution of ongoing and other probable audits by tax authorities FactSet is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of its business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the Company’s result of operations and financial condition in future periods. FactSet is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although FactSet believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on its provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on its income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. FactSet’s future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where the Company has lower statutory rates, and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where FactSet has higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. 8 Changes in accounting may affect FactSet’s reported earnings and operating income Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of its business are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in accounting rules, their interpretation, or changes in the Company’s products or business could significantly change its reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, FactSet uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management’s knowledge of current events and actions that FactSet may undertake in the future. Significant estimates have been made in areas that include income and other taxes, useful lives of fixed assets and intangibles, accrued liabilities, accrued compensation, stock-based compensation, receivable reserves, contingent liabilities and allocation of purchase price to assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, FactSet makes certain estimates under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore actual results may differ. Internal controls may be ineffective Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), FactSet is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in its implementation, its business and operating results could be harmed, FactSet could fail to meet its reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on its stock price. Potential changes in securities laws and regulations governing the investment industry’s use of soft dollars may reduce FactSet’s revenues As of August 31, 2007, 24% of FactSet’s revenues are paid through soft dollar arrangements. On July 18, 2006, the SEC issued Interpretive Release No. 34-54165 which became effective in January 2007. The release provides guidance on asset managers’ use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services within the scope of Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Interpretive Release outlines a framework for determining what types of research services fall within the safe harbor provisions of that section. During a speech in the spring of 2007, SEC Chairman Cox indicated his personal preference to eliminate the use of soft dollars. Although the Company believes that its services fall within the description of eligible research services covered by the safe harbor, that its services provide lawful and appropriate assistance to the money manager in undertaking investment decisions, and that the commissions for the services are reasonable in relation to the value of the services provided, nevertheless, a client might arrive at a different conclusion. Moreover, if additional rules are issued or certain interpretations are followed that narrow or eliminate the definition of research or brokerage services, which results in its clients being unable to use soft dollar arrangements to pay for FactSet products and services, the Company’s revenues could decrease. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 