Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in the documents incorporated by reference herein before deciding to purchase our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could cause you to suffer a partial or complete loss of your investment. See “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant monetary liabilities, fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act and related regulations subject Strayer University and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various Title IV programs to significant regulatory scrutiny. The Higher Education Act mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the federal government through the Department of Education; (2) the accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education (Secretary of Education) and (3) state education regulatory bodies. In addition, other federal agencies, such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Federal Trade Commission, and various state agencies and state Attorneys General enforce consumer protection laws applicable to post-secondary educational institutions. The regulations, standards and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change, and changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards or policies could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs or costs of doing business. Title IV requirements are enforced by the Department of Education and in some instances by private plaintiffs. If we are found to be in noncompliance with these laws, regulations, standards or policies, we could lose our access to Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Findings of noncompliance also could result in our being required to pay monetary damages, or being subjected to fines, penalties, injunctions, restrictions on our access to Title IV program funds or other censure that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regulatory changes by the Department of Education may have a material adverse effect on our business. The Department of Education issued on October 28, 2010, final rules that address program integrity issues for post-secondary education institutions participating in Title IV programs, most of which took effect on July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations on the metrics to determine whether an academic program prepares a student for gainful employment. Subsequent to the gainful employment metrics being invalidated by a federal court, the Department of Education established a negotiated rulemaking committee to consider the issue of gainful employment. The Committee did not achieve the required consensus. Although the Department of Education has not yet published a notice of proposed rulemaking, the Department has indicated that it expects to do so in early 2014. Although it is not yet known what will be included in the Department’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the most recent proposal by the Department put before the Committee included three metrics, as described herein. Failure of a program in any given year to meet the metrics would lead to heightened disclosure requirements and, if continuing, potential loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Although there is still uncertainty about the substance and timing of any final regulations related to debt metrics, compliance with the rules could affect how we conduct our business, and insufficient time or lack of sufficient guidance for compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty surrounding the rules and interpretive guidance by the Department of Education may continue for some period of time and may adversely affect our business. Congressional examination of for-profit post-secondary education could lead to legislation or other governmental action that may negatively affect the industry. In 2010, the U.S. Congress increased its focus on for-profit education institutions, including regarding participation in Title IV programs and DOD oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Since June 2010, the Senate HELP Committee has held hearings to examine the proprietary education sector, and the final report of the majority Members of the Committee was critical of the industry as a whole. Further, the report recommended various reforms which would affect proprietary institutions’ participation in Title IV programs. Other Committees of the U.S. Congress have also held hearings into, among other things, the standards and procedures of accrediting agencies, credit hours and program length, the portion of federal student financial aid going to proprietary institutions, and the receipt of veterans and military education benefits by students enrolled at proprietary institutions. Strayer University has cooperated with these inquiries. A number of legislators have variously requested the GAO to review and make recommendations regarding, among other things, recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in Title IV programs, and the percentage of proprietary institutions’ revenue coming from Title IV and other federal funding sources. GAO released four reports on for-profit post-secondary education: first, a report in August 2010 (subsequently revised in November 2010) that concluded, based on a three-month undercover investigation, that employees at a non-random sample of 15 proprietary institutions (not including Strayer University) made deceptive statements to students about accreditation, graduation rates, job placement, program costs, and financial aid; second, a report in October 2010 critical of the Department of Education’s efforts to enforce the ban on incentive payments; third, a report in October 2011 critical of the student experience and instructor performance at some for-profit online institutions; and fourth, a report in December 2011 comparing various student outcomes across proprietary, non-profit, and public institutions. 25 On July 30, 2012, the Senate HELP Committee released a report entitled “For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success.” While acknowledging that for-profit institutions have a role to play in higher education, the report criticized the proprietary institution industry on many fronts. However, the report also concluded that Strayer University's “performance, measured by student withdrawal rates, is one of the best of any company examined, and it appears that students are faring well at this degree based for-profit college.” S. Rept. 112-37. The report ultimately recommended several measures for reform which could change the participation of proprietary institutions in Title IV funding, including the following: · Tie access to federal financial aid to minimum student outcome thresholds. · Prohibit institutions from funding marketing, advertising and recruiting activities with federal financial aid dollars. · Expand the reporting period for cohort default rates beyond three years. · Require that for-profits receive 15% of revenues from non-federal sources. · Extend the ban on incentive compensation to include all employees of institutions of higher education, and clarify that this ban extends to numeric threshold or quota-based termination policies. The report was not adopted by the full Committee, and the minority Members released their own report criticizing the majority’s investigation in many aspects, including that it did not include a review of all institutions of higher education. On September 21, 2012, a group of senators wrote a letter to the Federal Trade Commission urging it to evaluate the marketing practices utilized by many proprietary institutions through the use of third-party lead generators. In addition, legislation was introduced in the Senate in April 2012, which remains pending in Committee, which would prevent institutions from using Title IV funds for marketing activities. This increased activity is expected to continue and may result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting participation in Title IV programs, and other governmental actions. In addition, concerns generated by Congressional activity may adversely affect enrollment in and revenues of for-profit educational institutions. Limitations on the amount of federal student financial aid for which our students are eligible under Title IV could materially and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the renewal and maintenance of Title IV programs. The Higher Education Act (“HEA”), which is the law governing Title IV programs, is subject to periodic reauthorization. Congress completed the most recent reauthorization through multiple pieces of legislation and may reauthorize the HEA in a piecemeal manner in the future. Additionally, Congress determines the funding level for each Title IV program on an annual basis. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or students to participate in these programs could materially harm our business. A reduction in government funding levels could lead to lower enrollments at our school and require us to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students. Lower student enrollments or our inability to arrange such alternative sources of funding could adversely affect our business. The HEA is currently operative through an automatic one-year extension, which continues the current authorization through September 30, 2014. We are subject to compliance reviews, which, if they resulted in a material finding of non-compliance, could affect our ability to participate in Title IV programs. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and related lawsuits by government agencies, accrediting agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. For example, the Department of Education regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in Title IV programs and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. In August 2010, the Secretary of Education announced plans to increase the number of program reviews by 50% to 300 in 2011. The Department of Education could limit, suspend, or terminate our participation in Title IV programs upon a material finding of non-compliance. The Department of Education last began such a program review of Strayer University’s administration of Title IV programs in the third quarter of 2010. On December 22, 2011, the Department of Education notified Strayer University that its Program Participation Agreement was approved on a provisional basis because “the institution did not disburse Title IV funds timely to students in each payment period.” On July 18, 2013, the University received its Final Program Review Determination from the Department, with no material adverse findings and no additional actions required. 26 If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the Department of Education, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of Strayer University’s accreditation by Middle States or Middle States’ loss of recognition by the Department of Education would render Strayer University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, an adverse action by Middle States other than loss of accreditation, such as issuance of a warning, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased scrutiny of accreditors by the Secretary of Education in connection with the Department of Education’s recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accreditors or have other consequences. If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and to participate in Title IV programs there. Each Strayer University campus is authorized to operate and to grant degrees, diplomas or certificates by the applicable education agency of the state where the campus is located. Such state authorization is required for students at the campus to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of state authorization would, among other things, render Strayer University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs at least at those state campus locations, limit Strayer University’s ability to operate in that state and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective July 1, 2011, Department of Education regulations provide that a proprietary institution is considered legally authorized by a state if the state has a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws, and the institution complies with any applicable state approval or licensure requirements consistent with the new rules. However, if a state in which Strayer has a physical campus fails to comply in the future with the provisions of the new rule or fails to provide the University with legal authorization, it could limit Strayer University’s ability to operate in that state and have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we fail to obtain recertification by the Department of Education when required, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. An institution generally must seek recertification from the Department of Education at least every six years and possibly more frequently depending on various factors, such as whether it is provisionally certified. The Department of Education may also review an institution’s continued eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs, or scope of eligibility and certification, in the event the institution undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control or expands its activities in certain ways, such as the addition of certain types of new programs, or, in certain cases, changes to the academic credentials that it offers. In certain circumstances, the Department of Education must provisionally certify an institution. The Department of Education may withdraw our certification if it determines that we are not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education does not renew, or withdraws our certification to participate in Title IV programs, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Each institution participating in Title IV programs must enter into a Program Participation Agreement with the Department of Education. Under the agreement, the institution agrees to follow the Department of Education’s rules and regulations governing Title IV programs. On January 20, 2012, Strayer University executed a provisional Program Participation Agreement with the Department of Education allowing it to participate in Title IV programs until September 30, 2014. Under the provisional agreement, the only material additional condition that the University must comply with is obtaining Department of Education approval for substantial changes, including the addition of any new location, level of academic offering, or non-degree program. A failure to demonstrate financial responsibility or administrative capability may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If we fail to demonstrate financial responsibility under the Department of Education’s regulations, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain administrative capability as defined by the Department of Education, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. On December 22, 2011, the Department of Education notified Strayer University that its Program Participation Agreement was approved on a provisional basis because “the institution did not disburse Title IV funds timely to students in each payment period.” Student loan defaults could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In general, under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant federal fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. Institutions with a cohort default rate equal to or greater than 15%, but less than 25%, must delay for 30 days disbursements to first-year, first-time subsidized and unsubsidized Direct Loan borrowers. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate for a federal fiscal year was greater than 40%. 27 Beginning with cohort default rate calculations for federal fiscal year 2009, the cohort default rate is calculated by determining the rate at which borrowers who become subject to their repayment obligation in the relevant federal fiscal year, default by the end of the second (rather than next) federal fiscal year that follows that fiscal year. The two-year method of calculating rates remains in effect and is used to determine institutional eligibility until three consecutive years of official cohort default rates calculated under the new formula are available. In addition, the cohort default rate threshold of 25% will be increased to 30% for purposes of certain sanctions and requirements related to cohort default rates. If we lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Strayer University’s two-year cohort default rates for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which this information is available, were 10.0%, 8.6%, and 10.5%, respectively. The average two-year cohort default rates for proprietary institutions nationally were 15.0%, 12.9%, and 13.6% for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. Strayer University’s three-year cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2009 and 2010, the only two years for which this information is currently available, were 13.9% and 15.2%, respectively. The average official three-year cohort default rates for proprietary institutions nationally were 22.7% and 21.8% for fiscal years 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our school could lose its eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs or be provisionally certified with respect to such participation if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs were too high. A proprietary institution may lose its eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs if it derives more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from these programs for two consecutive fiscal years. A proprietary institution of higher education that violates the 90/10 Rule for any fiscal year will be placed on provisional status for two fiscal years. Using the formula specified in the Higher Education Opportunity Act, we derived approximately 74% of our cash-basis revenues from these programs in 2012. Certain members of Congress have proposed to revise the 90/10 Rule to count DOD tuition assistance and veterans education benefits, along with Title IV revenue, toward the 90% limit and to reduce the limit to 85% of total revenue. If we were to violate the 90/10 Rule, the loss of eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s gainful employment regulations could result in heightened disclosure requirements and loss of Title IV eligibility. To be eligible for Title IV funding, academic programs offered by proprietary institutions of higher education must prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. After the previously adopted gainful employment regulations were invalidated by a federal court, the Department of Education convened a negotiated rulemaking to propose new regulations related to gainful employment – which negotiations did not yield the required consensus. The Department is expected to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for public comment in early 2014. Although it is not yet known what metrics the Department will ultimately propose in its Notice expected in 2014, the last proposal put before the negotiated rulemaking committee by the Department of Education contained measurements of program cohort default rates, annual debt-to-earnings, and discretionary debt-to-earnings. Under this proposal a program would pass: · If the program’s cohort default rate is less than 30%; and · If the program’s graduates have an annual debt-to-earnings ratio that does not exceed 8%; or a discretionary debt-to-earnings ratio that does not exceed 20%. In addition, a program that does not pass either of the debt-to-earnings metrics, and that has an annual debt-to-earnings ratio between 8% and 12%, or a discretionary debt-to-earnings ratio between 20% and 30%, would be considered to be in a warning zone. Under the annual and discretionary debt-to-earnings metrics, a program would become Title IV ineligible for three years if it fails to pass both metrics for two out of three consecutive years, or fails to pass at least one metric for four consecutive years. Under the program cohort default rate metric, a program would become Title IV ineligible for three years if the three-year default rate of three consecutive cohorts of students is greater than or equal to 30%. The regulations would provide a means by which an institution may challenge the Department of Education’s calculation of any of the three debt metrics prior to loss of Title IV eligibility. At this point, it is unknown what form any final regulation might take in relation to gainful employment and therefore the Company does not have adequate guidance or data to determine definitively the full financial or operational impact, if any, of potential new regulations going forward. Any gainful employment regulation may substantially increase our administrative burdens and could affect our student enrollment, persistence and retention. Further, although the regulations may provide opportunities for an institution to correct any potential deficiencies in a program prior to the loss of Title IV eligibility, the continuing eligibility of our academic programs may be affected by factors beyond management’s control such as changes in our graduates’ income levels, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the percentage of former students who are current in the repayment of their student loans, and various other factors. Even if we were able to correct any deficiency in the gainful employment metrics in a timely manner, the disclosure requirements expected to be associated with a program’s failure to meet the metrics may adversely affect student enrollments in that program and may adversely affect the reputation of our institution. The University must still comply with certain gainful employment disclosure requirements, as originally promulgated and upheld by the District Court. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in sanctions or other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s incentive compensation rules could result in sanctions and other liability. If we pay a bonus, commission or other incentive payment in violation of applicable Department of Education rules or if the Department or other third parties interpret our compensation practices as such, we could be subject to sanctions or other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s new misrepresentation rules could result in sanctions and other liability. The Higher Education Act prohibits an institution that participates in Title IV programs from engaging in “substantial misrepresentation” of the nature of its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates. The Department of Education’s Program Integrity Regulations, which took effect July 1, 2011, interpret this provision to prohibit any statement on those topics, made by the institution or a third party that provides educational programs, marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services to the institution, that has the likelihood or tendency to confuse. Although the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held on June 5, 2012, that the term “substantial misrepresentation” could not include true, nondeceitful statements that are merely confusing, the new misrepresentation rules are expansive. In the event of substantial misrepresentation, the Department of Education may revoke an institution’s program participation agreement, limit the institution’s participation in Title IV programs, deny applications from the institution such as to add new programs or locations, initiate proceedings to fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education or other third parties interpret statements made by us or on our behalf to be in violation of the new regulations, we could be subject to sanctions and other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s credit hour rule could result in sanctions and other liability. In 2009, the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General criticized three accreditors, including Middle States, for deficiency in their oversight of institutions’ credit hour allocations. In June 2010, the House Education and Labor Committee held a hearing concerning accrediting agencies’ standards for assessing institutions’ credit hour policies. The Program Integrity Regulations define the term “credit hour” for the first time and require accrediting agencies to review the reliability and accuracy of an institution’s credit hour assignments. If an accreditor does not comply with this requirement, its recognition by the Department of Education could be jeopardized. If an accreditor identifies systematic or significant noncompliance in one or more of an institution’s programs, the accreditor must notify the Secretary of Education. If the Department of Education determines that an institution is out of compliance with the credit hour definition, the Department could impose liabilities or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to calculate accurately and make timely payment of refunds of Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations require us to calculate refunds of unearned Title IV program funds disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational program before completing it. If refunds are not properly calculated or timely paid, we may be required to post a letter of credit with the Department of Education or be subject to sanctions or other adverse actions by the Department of Education, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investigations, legislative and regulatory developments and general credit market conditions related to the student loan industry may result in fewer lenders and loan products and increased regulatory burdens and costs. The HEOA contains new requirements pertinent to relationships between lenders and institutions. In 2009, the Department of Education promulgated regulations that address these relationships, and state legislators have also passed or may be considering legislation related to relationships between lenders and institutions. In addition, new procedures introduced and recommendations made by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau create uncertainty about whether Congress will impose new burdens on private student lenders. These developments, as well as legislative and regulatory changes such as those relating to gainful employment and repayment rates creating uncertainty in the industry and general credit market conditions, may cause some lenders to decide not to provide certain loan products and may impose increased administrative and regulatory costs. Such actions could reduce demand for and/or availability of private education loans, decrease Strayer University’s non-Title IV revenue and thereby increase Strayer University’s 90/10 ratio and have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on one or more third parties to administer our participation in Title IV programs and failure to comply with applicable regulations by a third party or by us could cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Until September 30, 2011, Global Financial Aid Services, Inc. assisted us with the administration of our participation in Title IV programs, and other third parties continue to assist us with other aspects of our participation in the Title IV programs. Because Strayer University is jointly and severally liable to the Department of Education for the actions of third-party servicers, failure of such servicers to comply with applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on Strayer University, including loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If any of the third-party servicers discontinue providing such services to us, we may not be able to replace them in a timely, cost-efficient, or effective manner, or at all, and we could lose our ability to comply with the requirements of the Title IV programs, which could adversely affect our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. Since September 30, 2011, we have directly administered Strayer University’s participation in Title IV programs. If our financial aid personnel, processes, and quality assurance procedures fail to comply with applicable regulation, such failure could have a material adverse effect on Strayer University, including loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. 29 Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. We collected the majority of our fiscal year 2013 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. Any processing disruptions by the Department of Education may affect our students’ ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the Federal Direct Loan Program, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the Department of Education to process the volume of direct loans on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. Our business could be harmed if Congress makes changes to the availability of Title IV funds. We collected the majority of our fiscal year 2013 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. Changes in the availability of these funds or a reduction in the amount of funds disbursed may have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congress eliminated further federal direct subsidized loans for graduate and professional students as of July 1, 2012. On August 9, 2013, Congress passed legislation that ties interest rates on Title IV loans to the rate paid on U.S. Treasury bonds. Interest rates are set every July 1st for loans taken out from July 1st to June 30th of the following year. In April 2011, Congress eliminated year-round Pell Grant awards beginning with the 2011-2012 award year and in July 2012, Congress reduced eligibility for Pell Grants from 18 semesters to 12 semesters. To date these changes have not had a material impact on our business, but future changes in the availability of Title IV funds could impact students’ ability to fund their education and thus may have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our enrollment rate is uncertain, and we may not be able to assess our future enrollments effectively. Our growth depends on a number of factors, including increased unemployment and the resulting lower confidence in job prospects, and many of the regulatory risks discussed above. In 2011, we revised our business model to acknowledge lower growth or reductions in enrollments. Our enrollment in 2014 is likely to be lower than our historical performance and will be affected by legislative uncertainty, regulatory activity, and market conditions. Until legislative, regulatory, and market uncertainty are resolved, it may be difficult to assess whether and to what extent there is an impact on our long-term growth prospects. In 2013, we closed physical locations to better align our resources with our current student enrollments. Although we may continue to invest in new campuses and to pursue our strategic goals in the future, there can be no assurance as to what our growth rate will be or as to the steps we may need to take if regulatory and legislative matters are not clarified or if market conditions do not stabilize. Opening new campuses and adding new services are dependent on our forecast of the demand for adult-focused post-secondary education and on regulatory approvals. Establishing new locations and adding new services require us to expend significant resources, including making human capital and financial capital investments, incurring marketing expenses and reallocating other resources. Since significant growth in enrollment in new campuses is required for them to become profitable, our willingness to add new campuses depends on our ability to predict growth in enrollment. The recent activity by the Department of Education and the U.S. Congress has introduced uncertainties into our business model and has slowed our pace of opening of new campuses, and we do not currently have plans to open new campuses in 2014. To open a new location, we are required to obtain appropriate federal, state, and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. We cannot assure investors that we will continue to open new campus locations or add new services in the future. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our success to date has been, and our continuing success will be, substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive officers, faculty and administrators and other key personnel. If we cease to employ any of these integral personnel or fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing academic programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of our academic programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and meet students’ needs in a timely manner. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological and other skills. The update and expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be received favorably by students, prospective employers or the online education market. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require due to regulatory constraints or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing new programs. 30 Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness of the academic programs we offer among working adult students. The continued development of awareness of the academic programs we offer among working adult students is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of the programs we offer, this could limit our enrollments and negatively impact our business. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: · the emergence of more successful competitors; · customer dissatisfaction with our services and programs; · performance problems with our online systems; and · our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing. Congressional and other governmental activities could damage the reputation of Strayer University and limit our ability to attract and retain students. Since 2010, the U.S. Congress has increased its focus on proprietary educational institutions, including administration of Title IV programs, military assistance programs, and other federal programs. The Department of Education has indicated to Congress that it intends to increase its regulation of and attention to proprietary educational institutions. And the Government Accountability Office has released several reports of investigations into proprietary educational institutions. These and other governmental activities, including new regulations on program integrity and gainful employment, even if resulting in no adverse findings or actions against Strayer, singly or cumulatively could affect public perception of investor-funded higher education, damage the reputation of Strayer University, and limit our ability to attract and retain students. We face strong competition in the post-secondary education market. Post-secondary education in our market area is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges, other for-profit schools and alternatives to higher education, such as employment and military service. Public colleges may offer programs similar to those of Strayer University at a lower tuition level as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary institutions. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Congress, the Department of Education, and other agencies require increasing disclosure of information to consumers. While we believe that Strayer University provides valuable education to its students, we cannot predict the bases on which individual students and potential students will choose among the range of educational and other options available to them. This strong competition could adversely affect our business. Strayer University relies on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property, and competitors may attempt to duplicate Strayer programs and methods. Third parties may attempt to develop competing programs or duplicate or copy aspects of Strayer University’s curriculum, online library, quality management and other proprietary content. Any such attempt, if successful, could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of its business, Strayer develops intellectual property of many kinds that is or will be the subject of copyright, trademark, service mark, patent, trade secret or other protections. Such intellectual property includes but is not limited to Strayer’s courseware materials for classes taught online and business know-how and internal processes and procedures developed to respond to the requirements of its various education regulatory agencies. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This fluctuation may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue. Historically, our quarterly revenues and income have been lowest in the third quarter (July through September) because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. We also incur significant expenses in the third quarter in preparing for our peak enrollment in the fourth quarter (October through December), including investing in online and campus infrastructure necessary to support increased usage. These investments result in fluctuations in our operating results which could result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the online education market is a rapidly evolving market, and we may not be able to forecast accurately future enrollment growth and revenues. 31 Regulatory requirements may make it more difficult to acquire us. A change in ownership resulting in a change of control of Strayer would trigger a requirement for recertification of Strayer University by the Department of Education for purposes of participation in federal student financial aid programs, a review of Strayer University’s accreditation by Middle States and reauthorization of Strayer University by certain state licensing and other regulatory agencies. If we underwent a change of control that required approval by any state authority, Middle States or any federal agency, and any required regulatory approval were significantly delayed, limited or denied, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to offer certain educational programs, award certain degrees, diplomas or certificates, operate one or more of our locations, admit certain students or participate in Title IV programs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. These factors may discourage takeover attempts. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to Strayer University’s computer networks could damage the reputation of Strayer University and limit our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of Strayer University’s computer networks, especially the online educational platform, is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could result in the unavailability of Strayer University’s computer networks. We cannot assure you that Strayer University, including its online educational platform, will be able to expand its program infrastructure on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand for its programs. Strayer University’s computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond its control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to Strayer University’s computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. Strayer University’s computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt operations and require it to expend significant resources. Strayer University’s computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, Strayer University may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subject us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state authorities and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Strayer University, with its online programs, operates in a highly competitive market with rapid technological changes and it may not compete successfully. Online education is a highly fragmented and competitive market that is subject to rapid technological change. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities, many of which have some form of online education programs, to for-profit schools, corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. We expect the online education and training market to be subject to rapid changes in technologies. Strayer University’s success will depend on its ability to adapt to these changing technologies. We may not be able to complete or integrate any future acquisitions successfully. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to consider selective acquisitions. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to complete successfully any acquisitions on favorable terms, or that if we do, we will be able to integrate successfully the personnel, operations and technologies of any such acquisitions. Our failure to complete or integrate successfully future acquisitions could disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our profitability and liquidity by distracting our management and employees and increasing our expenses. In addition, because an acquisition is considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, we must seek approval from the Department of Education if the acquired institution participates in Title IV programs, and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies when we acquire an institution. If we were unable to obtain such approvals of an institution we acquired, depending on the size of that acquisition, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our business. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no SEC staff comments on our periodic SEC reports which are unresolved. 