ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks. Some of such risks may give rise to occurrences that cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. In the following paragraphs, we describe our current view of certain important strategic risks, although the risks below are not the only risks we face. If any such risks actually materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be affected materially and adversely. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with our management’s discussion and analysis, beginning on page 18 hereof, and our consolidated financial statements, beginning on page 49 hereof. General economic conditions, such as the current economic downturn or recession, could materially impair our customers’ ability to repay loans, harm our operating results and reduce our volume of new loans. The U.S. and the world economies are facing uncertain times. No one knows when the U.S. economy will come out of recession and what impact the Stimulus Package, which was recently signed in to law, will have in the near and distant future. While the Company’s loan portfolio, investment portfolio and funding sources have held up well in the current environment, the future situation is uncertain and the identified risks are explained in further detail throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis section. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions. Economic downturns or recessions, either nationally, internationally or in the states within our footprint, could materially reduce our operating results. An economic downturn could negatively impact demand for our loan and deposit products, the demand for insurance and brokerage products and the amount of credit related losses due to customers who cannot pay interest or principal on their loans. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed our estimates, an increase to the amount of expense provided related to the allowance for loans would reduce income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage credit risk. General economic conditions, such as a stock market decline, could materially impair the number of investors in the equity and bond markets, the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services. Economic downturns or recessions could affect the volume of income from and demand for our other fee-based services. The fee revenue of our asset management segments including income from our Scout Investment Advisors, Inc. and UMB Fund Services, Inc. subsidiaries, are largely dependent on both inflows to, and the fair value of, assets invested in the UMB Scout Funds and the fund clients to whom we provide services. General economic conditions can affect investor sentiment and confidence in the overall securities markets which could adversely affect asset values, net flows to these funds and other assets under management. Our bankcard revenues are dependent on transaction volumes from consumer and corporate spending to generate interchange fees. An economic downturn could negatively affect the amount of such fee income. Our banking services group is affected by corporate and consumer demand for debt securities which can be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions. We are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern most aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations, and in particular banking, securities and tax laws, are under intense scrutiny because of the current economic crisis and may change from time to time. For example, current federal law prohibits the payment of interest on corporate demand deposit accounts. Although a change to permit interest on corporate accounts would have a favorable impact on service-charge income, it would adversely affect net interest income as the Company’s cost of funds would increase. Changes in laws and regulations, lawsuits or actions by regulatory agencies could cause us to devote significant time and resources to compliance and could lead to fines, penalties, judgments, settlements, withdrawal of certain products or services offered in the market or other results adverse to us which could affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. The future U.S. banking regulatory environment is currently under review. However, it is likely to change resulting in increased internal and external costs, including FDIC assessments. While UMB elected to not 13 Table of Contents participate in the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, the intended and unintended consequences of this governmental action are still being evaluated in our industry. Further, the effect of additional congressional actions remains a possibility, the outcome of which is not currently determinable. Changes in interest rates could affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our net income is based on the difference between interest earned on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board. For example, policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board influence, directly and indirectly, the rate of interest paid by commercial banks on their interest-bearing deposits and also may affect the value of financial instruments held by us. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also determine to a significant degree our cost of funds for lending and investing. In addition, these policies and conditions can adversely affect our customers and counterparties, which may increase the risk that such customers or counterparties default on their obligations to us. Changes in interest rates greatly affect the amount of income earned and the amount of interest paid. Changes in interest rates also affect loan demand, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase and sale of investment bonds and the generation and retention of customer deposits. A rapid increase in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of differences in maturities of assets and liabilities. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage interest rate risk. We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could adversely affect our operations. Our Company is dependent on our ability to process a large number of transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be adversely affected if a significant number of our employees are unavailable due to a pandemic, natural disaster, war, act of terrorism, or other reason, or if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error, purposeful sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of the Company to operate, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect us. Operational risk also includes our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions into existing charters as an acquired entity will most likely be on a different system than ours. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage operational risk. In a firm as large and complex as the Company, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems may prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could adversely affect our results of operations by requiring the Company to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. If we do not successfully handle issues that may arise in the conduct of our business and operations, our reputation could be damaged, which could in turn negatively affect our business. Our ability to attract and retain customers and transact with the Company’s counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. The failure of the Company to deal with various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to the Company and our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, recordkeeping, sales and trading practices and proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. The failure to appropriately address these issues could make our clients unwilling to do business with us, which could adversely affect our results. 14 Table of Contents We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition to the challenge of competing against local, regional and national banks in attracting and retaining customers, our competitors also include brokers, mortgage bankers, mutual fund sponsors, securities dealers, investment advisors and specialty finance and insurance companies. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices on products and services or increasing rates paid on deposits. The shift from paper-based to electronic-based payments may be difficult and negatively affect earnings. In today’s payment environment, checks continue to be a payment choice; however, checks as a percent of the total payment volume are declining and the transactions are shifting to electronic alternatives. Check products are serviced regionally due to the physical constraints of paper documents; however, electronic documents are not bound by the same constraints, thus opening geographic markets to all providers of electronic services. To address this shift, new systems are being developed and marketed which involve significant software and hardware costs. It is anticipated that we will encounter new competition, and any competitor that attracts the payments business of our existing customers will compete strongly for the remainder of such customers’ banking business. Our framework for managing our risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company. Our risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage our risk exposure. Types of risk to which we are subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, price risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, compliance and litigation risk, foreign exchange risk, reputation risk, and fiduciary risk, among others. There can be no assurance that our framework to manage risk, including such framework’s underlying assumptions, will be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on the securities market and other external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity affects our ability to meet our financial commitments. Our liquidity could be negatively affected should the need arise to increase deposits or obtain additional funds through borrowing to augment current liquidity sources. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the general financial services industry, could impair the Company’s access to funding. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to sell assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets on a timely basis, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Liquidity Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage liquidity risk. Inability to hire or retain qualified employees could adversely affect our performance. Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. Employee compensation is our greatest expense. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become unreasonably expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards affecting the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes are not within our control and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 15 Table of Contents Future events may be different than those anticipated by our management assumptions and estimates, which may cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to current Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we are required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Should our determined values for such items prove inaccurate, we may experience unexpected losses which could be material. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC required to be disclosed herein as of the date of this Form 10-K. 