Risk Factors—Rate Increases in California.” The Commissioner approved in its entirety the Company’s most recent application, which was implemented on January 1, 2005. As a result of the performance of its core business during the past two years the Company did not have a rate increase in 2006, and will not have a rate increase in 2007. Medical Malpractice Tort Reform The California Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (MICRA), enacted in 1975, has been one of the most comprehensive medical malpractice tort reform measures in the United States. MICRA currently provides for limitations on damages for pain and suffering of $250,000, limitations on fees for plaintiffs’ attorneys according to a specified formula, periodic payment of medical malpractice judgments and the introduction of evidence of collateral source benefits payable to the injured plaintiff. The Company believes that this legislation has brought stability to the medical malpractice insurance marketplace in California by making it more feasible for insurers to assess the risks involved in underwriting this line of business. Bills have been introduced in the California Legislature from time to time to modify or limit certain of the tort reform benefits provided to physicians and other healthcare providers by MICRA. Neither the proponents nor opponents have been able to enact significant changes. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, to MICRA may be enacted during the next few years or what effect such changes might have on the Company’s medical malpractice insurance operations. Medical Malpractice Reports The Company has been required to report detailed information with regard to settlements or judgments against its California physician insureds in excess of $30,000 to the Medical Board of California, which has responsibility for investigations and initiation of proceedings relating to professional medical conduct in California. Since January 1, 1998, all judgments, regardless of amount, must be reported to the Medical Board, which now publishes on the Internet all judgments reported and in the future will publicize certain settlements above $30,000. In addition, all payments must also be reported to the federal National Practitioner Data Bank and such reports are accessible by state licensing and disciplinary authorities, hospital and other peer review committees and other providers of medical care. A California statute also requires that defendant physicians must consent to all medical professional liability settlements in excess of $30,000, unless the physician waives this requirement. The Company’s policy provides the physician with the right to consent to any such settlement, regardless of the amount, but that either party may submit the matter of consent to a medical review board. In virtually all instances, the Company must obtain the consent of the insured physician prior to any settlement. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 Under the Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, effective November 26, 2002, each commercial property and casualty insurer is required to make terrorism coverage available in policies for property and liability coverages other than professional liability coverage (which is excluded under the Act). Any terrorism exclusion in a subject policy is rendered void by the Act to the extent it excludes losses covered by the Act. The federal government will pay a major share of the covered losses after a deductible is paid by the insurers. The Company provides other liability coverages in its various policies, in addition to professional liability insurance, and may be subject to the Act. The Company’s policy forms do not exclude coverage for acts of terrorism. The Company has notified its policyholders of this coverage as provided by the Act, and has informed its policyholders that no premium is currently charged for acts of terrorism coverage. The Company does not consider this coverage material to its policies, which protect its insureds principally against liability, not property losses. The law was extended in 2005 to remain in effect until December 31, 2007. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) was enacted by Congress to ultimately simplify the healthcare administrative process. HIPAA contains a variety of provisions, including privacy and security rules designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of “protected health information.” Protected health information includes, among other things, medical and billing records relating to medical care provided by the Company’s insureds and loss 20 Table of Contents descriptions and other information relating to medical liability claims asserted by patients against such insureds. The Company has developed various documents and procedures for use with its insureds and vendors to safeguard this information from disclosure and use not permitted under HIPAA. A.M. BEST RATING A.M. Best rates insurance companies based on factors of concern to policyholders. A.M. Best currently assigns to each insurance company a rating that ranges from “A++ (Superior)” to “F (In Liquidation).” A.M. Best reviews a company’s profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of its loss reserves, the adequacy of its surplus, its capital structure, the experience and competence of its management and its market presence. A.M. Best’s ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to purchasers of an insurance company’s securities. For a number of years, the Insurance Subsidiaries received an A.M. Best rating of A (Excellent), the third highest rating classification. As a result of losses in the non-core businesses, the Company’s rating was reduced in 2002 and 2003 to B (Fair). The Company took actions to improve its capital adequacy position through the orderly withdrawal from the non-core healthcare and assumed reinsurance businesses. In November, 2006, A.M. Best increased its rating for the Insurance Subsidiaries to B+ (Good). A.M. Best assigns a B+ rating to companies that have, in its opinion, a good ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The outlook for this rating is stable. An A.M. Best rating of at least an A- classification is important to some consumers in the property/casualty insurance industry. At the present time, the Company has not been significantly affected by the lower A.M. Best ratings. The Company believes that its major competitors in California may use the Insurance Subsidiaries’ lower A.M. Best rating in an attempt to solicit some of the Company’s customers. The Insurance Subsidiaries participate in a pooling arrangement and each of the Insurance Subsidiaries has been assigned the same “pooled” “B+ (Good)” A.M. Best rating based on their consolidated performance. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, the Company employed 120 persons. None of the employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes that its employee relations are good. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Executive Officers of the Company and their ages as of March 6, 2007, are as follows: NAME AGE POSITION Donald J. Zuk 70 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Ronald L. Goldberg 55 Senior Vice President, Underwriting and Marketing Joseph P. Henkes 57 Secretary and Senior Vice President, Operations and Actuarial Services Robert B. Tschudy 58 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Edward G. Marley 46 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Donald P. Newell 69 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Margaret A. McComb 62 Senior Vice President, Claims Donald J. Zuk became Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s predecessor in 1989. Prior to joining the Company, he served 22 years with Johnson & Higgins, insurance brokers. His last position there was Senior Vice President in charge of its Los Angeles Health Care operations, which included the operations of the Company’s predecessor. Mr. Zuk is a director of BCSI Holdings Inc., a privately held insurance company. Ronald L. Goldberg joined the Company in May 2001. From June 2000 to April 2001, Mr. Goldberg was a Senior Consultant to ChannelPoint, Inc., a privately held firm providing technology services to the insurance industry. Prior to that time, Mr. Goldberg 21 Table of Contents served as Senior Vice President of the PHICO Group, a privately held professional liability insurer, from June 1998 to May 2000, and as President of its Independence Indemnity Insurance Company subsidiary. From April 1993 to May 1998, he was Vice President of USF&G Insurance Co., a large diversified insurance company that is now part of The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. Joseph P. Henkes has been with the Company since 1990, serving initially as Vice President, Operations and Actuarial Services. He was named Senior Vice President, Operations and Actuarial Services in 1992. Prior to joining the Company, he served three years with Johnson & Higgins, insurance brokers, where his services were devoted primarily to the Company. He has been an Associate of the Casualty Actuarial Society since 1975 and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries since 1980. Robert B. Tschudy joined the Company in May 2002. From July 1995 to March 2001, Mr. Tschudy was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with 21st Century Insurance Group, a publicly held property casualty insurance company writing primarily personal automobile insurance in California. Prior to that time, Mr. Tschudy was a partner, specializing in insurance, in the Los Angeles Office of Ernst & Young LLP for over 10 years. Edward G. Marley joined the Company in December 2001 as Vice President and Controller. He was named Chief Accounting Officer in 2003. Prior to that time, he spent 14 years with CAMICO Mutual Insurance Company where he served as Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Donald P. Newell joined the Company in January 2001. Prior to that time, he was a partner at the law firm of Latham & Watkins in San Diego, California. Mr. Newell has worked on matters for the Company since 1975. Mr. Newell is a director of Mercury General Corporation, a publicly held personal lines insurance holding company. Mr. Newell was a director of the Company, until his resignation in January, 2007. Mr. Newell intends to retire from his employment with the Company at March 31, 2007. Margaret A. McComb has been with the Company since 1990. Prior to joining the Company, she served 14 years with Johnson & Higgins, insurance brokers. She assumed management responsibility for the Claims Department in 1985. Ms. McComb was named Senior Vice President in May 2002. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in this section. The information discussed below should be considered carefully with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents and materials filed by the Company with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information publicly disseminated by the Company from time to time. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that it currently believes to be immaterial, may also adversely affect the Company’s business. Any of the following risks or uncertainties that develop into actual events could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial conditions or results of operations. Concentration of Business Substantially all of the Company’s direct premiums written are generated from healthcare liability insurance policies issued to physicians and medical groups, healthcare facilities and other providers in the healthcare industry. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the healthcare liability insurance industry, particularly as such developments might affect medical malpractice insurance for physicians and medical groups, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Almost all of the Company’s 2007 premiums written will be generated in California. The revenues and profitability of the Company are therefore subject to prevailing regulatory, economic and other conditions in California, particularly Southern California. In addition, approximately 23.6% of premiums written were generated by groups of nine physicians or more. The largest group of physicians accounted for 2.4% of total premiums written in 2006 and one program of affiliated groups, accounted for 6.6% of premiums written in 2006. Importance of Brokers In the past few years, brokers have become increasingly important to the Company’s growth. During 2006, the Company wrote approximately 36% of its core healthcare liability business through independent brokers. The Company competes with other 22 Table of Contents insurers for this brokerage business. To maintain its relationship with independent brokers, the Company must pay competitive commissions, be able to respond to their needs quickly and adequately, and create a consistently high level of policyholder service and satisfaction. In addition, an insurer’s A.M. Best rating is an important factor. If a broker finds it preferable to do business with a competitor with a higher A.M. Best rating, it could be difficult to renew existing business written through such broker or attract new business. Uncertainties of Future Expansion From 1996 to 2001, the Company significantly expanded its healthcare liability insurance products into markets outside California. This expansion was not successful, and the Company is now “running off” this non-core healthcare liability business. At the present time, the Company has one continuing non-California program for physicians and medical groups in Delaware and may consider adding programs on a selective basis in the future. The Company cannot predict whether this remaining program will be ultimately successful or whether the Company will have the opportunity to add such programs in other jurisdictions, and, if so, whether any additional program will be successful. Success will depend upon, among other things, the Company’s access to sufficient capital for any future expansion and its ability to accurately underwrite the healthcare risks and adequately price its policies in these other jurisdictions in which the Company does not have current experience. Industry Factors Many factors influence the financial results of the healthcare liability insurance industry, several of which are beyond the control of the Company. These factors include, among other things, changes in severity and frequency of claims; changes in applicable law and regulatory reform; changes in judicial attitudes toward liability claims; and changes in inflation, interest rates and general economic conditions. The availability of healthcare liability insurance, or the industry’s underwriting capacity, is determined principally by the industry’s level of capitalization, historical underwriting results, returns on investment and perceived premium rate adequacy. Historically, the financial performance of the healthcare liability insurance industry has tended to fluctuate between a soft insurance market and a hard insurance market. In a soft insurance market, competitive conditions could result in premium rates and underwriting terms and conditions that may be below profitable levels. For a number of years, the healthcare liability insurance industry in California and nationally has faced a soft insurance market. Although the Company believes that the California insurance market is improved, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or as to its effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition The Company competes with numerous insurance companies in the California market. The Company’s principal competitors for physicians and medical groups in California consist of three physician-owned mutual or reciprocal insurance companies, several commercial companies and a physicians’ mutual protection trust, which levies assessments primarily on a “claims paid” basis. In addition, commercial insurance companies compete for the medical malpractice insurance business of larger medical groups and other healthcare providers. Several of these competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. Between 1993 and 2002, the Company instituted overall rate increases in order to improve its underwriting results. These rate increases were higher than those implemented by most of its competitors. As a result, the Company lost some of its policyholders, in part due to its rate increases. In 2003, the Company’s rates became more competitive, as its requested rate increase for that year was delayed until the fourth quarter. In October 2003, the Company instituted an average 9.9% rate increase for California physicians and medical groups and in January 2005, implemented an additional 6.5% rate increase. The Company believes its rates remain generally competitive with those of other companies, after giving effect to these rate increases. The effect of any future rate increases on the Company’s ability to retain and expand its healthcare liability insurance business in California is uncertain. In addition to pricing, competitive factors may include policyholder dividends, financial stability, breadth and flexibility of coverage and the quality and level of services provided. Two of the Company’s physician-owned competitors have announced their intention to pay some level of policyholder dividends in California in 2007. The Company considers its A.M. Best rating to be extremely important to its ability to compete in its core markets. The Company’s current rating of B+ (Good) with a stable outlook could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain policyholders in California and Delaware. See “Importance of A.M. Best Rating.” 23 Table of Contents Loss and LAE Reserves The reserves for losses and LAE established by the Company are estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported claims and related LAE. The estimates are based on assumptions related to the ultimate cost of settling such claims based on facts and interpretation of circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claims frequency and severity, judicial theories of liability, legislative activity, reports from ceding reinsurers and other factors. However, establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, and there can be no assurance that currently established reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent actual experience. The inherent uncertainty is greater for healthcare liability reserves where a longer period may elapse before a definite determination of ultimate claim liability is made, and where the judicial, political and regulatory climates are changing. Healthcare liability claims and expenses may be paid over a period of 10 or more years, which is longer than most property and casualty claims. Trends in losses on long-tail lines of business such as healthcare liability may be slow to appear, and accordingly, the Company’s reaction in terms of modifying underwriting practices and changing premium rates may lag underlying loss trends. The core healthcare liability net reserves account for $274.1 million or 74.6% of total net reserves as of December 31, 2006. This portion of the reserves has the most historical experience available for actuarial analysis, and therefore should be the most predictable. A change of 1% in estimated loss cost trends based on more recent experience would have an effect of approximately $7.6 million on estimated reserve levels. The reserves related to the non-core healthcare liability business present additional problems in determining adequate reserves. As the size of these reserves decline and the number of underlying cases decrease, the ultimate losses become more related to specific case results. Therefore, unexpected legal results in healthcare liability cases can produce unexpected reserve development. This was evident in 2004 as one adverse verdict in a Florida hospital case and an unexpected rise in severe dental claims caused a material upward development of prior years reserves. Since some of the remaining cases in the non-core healthcare liability business will ultimately go to trial many years after the event of loss, adverse verdicts or settlements at trial may affect the accuracy of future reserving. As of December 31, 2006, non-core healthcare liability reserves accounted for $37.7 million or 10.3% of total net reserves. Outstanding claims are 136 at December 31, 2006. The following table presents the net assumed reinsurance reserves (including retrospective reserves ceded under the Rosemont Re Treaty of $6.4 million, $7.1 million, and $12.7 million, respectively) by major component as of December 31: 2006 2005 2004 (In Thousands) Lloyd’s Syndicates (1) $ — $ — $ 21,922 London-based business 19,494 24,427 18,873 Occupational accident business 19,134 21,780 26,561 Excess D&O liability 5,414 6,375 7,375 Bail and immigration bonds 136 573 (2) 3,489 Other 4,849 6,039 9,588 $ 49,027 $ 59,194 $ 87,808 (1) Syndicates for which the Company provided capital. (2) Additional net liabilities of $3.6 million representing payment requests made to the Company are included in other liabilities on the Company’s balance sheet. These net liabilities are being contested in pending arbitrations. (See “Legal Proceedings — Bail and Immigration Bond Proceedings.”) Approximately 50% of the net assumed reinsurance reserves outstanding as of December 31, 2006 are supported by actuarial work performed by or for the ceding insurers. Since the time required for the ultimate losses to be reported through the world- wide reinsurance system may cover several years, unexpected events are more difficult to predict. Establishing reserves in the assumed reinsurance area is complicated by the delay in reporting that naturally occurs as information passes through the worldwide reinsurance network. In addition, sudden and catastrophic events do occur and further complicate the reserving process. Such events have caused the Company to revise upward its assumed reinsurance reserves over time. Examples of these types of events include the World Trade Center terrorist attack in 2001, the sudden collapse of GoshawK Syndicate 102 in 2003 and the collapse of a large bonding company in 2004. (See Legal Proceedings – Bail and Immigration Bond Proceedings). In 2005 and 2006 a number of London-based insureds including various Lloyd’s syndicates 24 Table of Contents increased reserve estimates from 2000 and 2001 policy years. The Company believes that its current assumed reinsurance reserve levels are adequate, but they may vary as the Company receives new information from the ceding insurers. While the Company believes that its reserves for losses and LAE are adequate, there can be no assurance that the Company’s ultimate losses and LAE will not deviate, perhaps substantially, from the estimates reflected in the Company’s financial statements. If the Company’s reserves should prove inadequate, the Company will be required to increase reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Rate Changes in California California law requires that the Insurance Subsidiaries must submit proposed rate changes in California to the California Commissioner for approval prior to implementation. Interested parties have the right to object to such proposed changes, and to request hearings that can be time consuming, if granted, and can result in rulings adverse to the applicant. A consumer group has challenged proposed rate increases by the Company in recent years, with some success. The Commissioner approved in its entirety the Company’s most recent application, which was implemented on January 1, 2005. The Company plans to file applications for future rate changes in California that it considers justified by reason of its loss experience. The Company may encounter objections and delays in obtaining approval of any requested changes. If future rate requests are denied or significantly reduced, or if there are substantial delays in implementing a favorable decision, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected. Necessary Capital and Surplus Measures of capital and surplus are used in the casualty insurance industry to evaluate the safety and financial strength of an insurer. Recognized guidelines in the Company’s segment are that (i) an insurer should not operate at a ratio of net premiums written to statutory capital and surplus (policyholder surplus) greater than 1 to 1, and (ii) an insurer should not have a ratio of net loss and LAE reserves to policyholder surplus greater than 3 to 1. In recent years the Company had unfavorably exceeded both these measures because of the losses incurred in the non-core healthcare liability insurance and assumed reinsurance business. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, the Company has improved its capital and surplus position. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a ratio of net premiums written to policyholder surplus of .75 to 1 and a ratio of net loss and LAE reserves to policyholder surplus of 2.23 to 1. At these levels, however, the Company may have limited ability to materially expand its core business without exceeding one or both of these ratios. Moreover, the Company cannot predict whether this improvement in policyholder surplus will be sufficient to result in continued improved ratings from A.M. Best. In addition, the Company could experience unexpected losses and loss reserve increases similar to those experienced in recent years that would negatively impact these ratios and the Company’s overall financial strength. The Company may need to raise additional capital through financings to improve its financial position. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financings, dilution to the Company’s stockholders could result, and in any case securities may have rights preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the Company’s current stockholders. If the Company’s need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult to raise capital. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, its business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Liquidity The Company’s investment portfolio primarily consists of readily marketable fixed-income securities. In addition, the Company holds a significant cash and short-term investment position as of December 31, 2006. Should cash needs of the Company, primarily loss reserve payments, require the unplanned sale of a portion of the fixed income portfolio when the portfolios carrying value is in excess of current market rates, losses on security sales could impact the Company’s earnings in the period of sale. Changes in Healthcare Significant attention has recently been focused on reforming the healthcare system at both the federal and state levels. A broad range of healthcare reform and patients’ rights measures have been suggested, and public discussion of such measures will likely continue in the future. Proposals have included, among others, spending limits, price controls, limits on increases in 25 Table of Contents insurance premiums, limits on the liability of doctors and hospitals for tort claims, increased tort liabilities for managed care organizations and changes in the healthcare insurance system. The Company cannot predict which, if any, reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on the Company. While some of these proposals could be beneficial to the Company, the adoption of others could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition to regulatory and legislative efforts, there have been significant market-driven changes in the healthcare environment. In recent years, a number of factors related to the emergence of “managed care” have negatively impacted or threatened to impact the medical practice and economic independence of physicians. Physicians have found it more difficult to conduct a traditional fee for service practice and many have been driven to join or contractually affiliate with managed care organizations, healthcare delivery systems or practice management organizations. This consolidation could result in the elimination or significant decrease in the role of the physician and the medical group from the medical professional liability purchasing decision. In addition, the consolidation could reduce primary medical malpractice insurance premiums paid by healthcare systems, as larger healthcare systems generally retain more risk by accepting higher deductibles and self-insured retentions or form their own captive insurance companies. Importance of A.M. Best Rating A.M. Best ratings are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. The rating reflects A.M. Best’s opinion of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. The Company’s principal competitors in the healthcare liability insurance market in California all have an A- or better rating from A.M. Best. The Company’s current rating is B+ (Good) with a stable outlook. This puts the Insurance Subsidiaries at a competitive disadvantage with its principal California competitors. The Insurance Subsidiaries rely heavily on their longstanding policyholder relations and reputation in California, and compete principally on this basis in the California market. The Insurance Subsidiaries have not currently experienced a significant loss of business because of this A.M. Best rating; however, competitors could use their rating advantage to attract some of the Insurance Subsidiaries’ policyholders. If the Insurance Subsidiaries’ A.M. Best rating were to be reduced, this could have a material adverse effect on the Insurance Subsidiaries’ ability to continue to write policies in some segments of the market. Ceded Reinsurance The amount and cost of reinsurance available to companies specializing in medical professional liability insurance are subject, in large part, to prevailing market conditions beyond the control of the Company. The Company’s ability to provide professional liability insurance at competitive premium rates and coverage limits on a continuing basis will depend in part upon its ability to secure adequate reinsurance in amounts and at rates that are commercially reasonable. In general, the Company’s reinsurance agreements are for a one-year term. Although the Company anticipates that it will continue to be able to obtain such reinsurance on reasonable terms, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. In some years, the Company experiences large paid losses under its healthcare liability insurance policies that are in excess of the limits of insurance retained by the Company and thus are borne by the reinsurers. The Company is subject to a credit risk with respect to its reinsurers because reinsurance does not relieve the Company of liability to its insureds for the risks ceded to reinsurers. Although the Company places its reinsurance with reinsurers it believes to be financially stable, a significant reinsurer’s inability to make payment under the terms of a reinsurance treaty could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Rosemont Re, with which the Company had the largest receivable balance at December 31, 2006, incurred substantial unexpected losses during 2005 as a result of hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Rosemont Re has ceased writing any new business and is in run-off. Under the Company’s reinsurance arrangement with Rosemont Re, Rosemont Re assets approximately equal to the estimated liabilities are currently held in trust to satisfy the liabilities. If the liabilities increased materially in the future, the Company would have to look to Rosemont’s Re’s general assets to satisfy any liabilities not covered by the trust assets. As of June 30, 2006, Rosemont Re reported shareholder equity of $66.1 million. See “Business—Ceded Reinsurance Programs.” Highlands Insurance Group Contingent Liability The Company is obligated to assume certain policy obligations of Highlands Insurance Company (Highlands) in the event Highlands is declared insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction and is unable to pay these obligations. The coverages 26 Table of Contents principally involve workers’ compensation, commercial automobile and general liability. Highlands currently is under the jurisdiction of the Texas District Court which appointed the Texas Insurance Commissioner as a permanent Receiver of Highlands in November 2003. The Receiver, through a Special Deputy Receiver (“SDR”) continues to resolve Highlands claim liabilities and otherwise conduct its business as part of his efforts to rehabilitate Highlands. At December 31, 2006, Highlands had established case loss reserves of $4.1 million, net of reinsurance, for the subject policies. Based on a limited review of the exposures remaining, the Company estimates that IBNR losses are $2.7 million, for a total loss and LAE reserve of $6.8 million. This estimate is not based on a full reserve analysis of the exposures and is not recorded in the Company’s reserves. If Highlands is declared insolvent and liquidated by court order, the Company would likely be required to assume Highlands’ remaining obligations under the subject policies. The court order appointing the Receiver for Highlands expressly provided that it did not constitute a finding of insolvency. On July 24, 2006, the SDR filed an Application for Approval of Rehabilitation Plan with the Texas Court. Under the Plan, if approved, the SDR would continue to pay allowed policy claims (including those under the subject policies), and then to pay other claims with any remaining funds. The Plan requires policyholders and others to submit claims in the proceeding and envisions claims would be resolved and paid over a number of years. As long as the Rehabilitation Proceeding is in effect, there would be no liquidation of Highlands and, therefore, no obligation on the part of the Company under the subject policies. The Plan is subject to approval of the Texas Court. Certain creditors have filed objections to aspects of the Plan and, in some cases, to the Plan in its entirety. An extended hearing is in progress on these objections. Final arguments are scheduled for March 21, 2007. If the Plan is not approved, Highlands could be declared insolvent and liquidated. Bail and Immigration Bond Proceedings The Company’s Insurance Subsidiary, AHI, was a reinsurer during 2001 and 2002 under separate reinsurance agreements with Highlands and two other primary insurers covering bail and immigration bond programs administered by a single bonding company. During 2004, the bonding company failed and the primary insurers have made claims against AHI that are now part of active arbitration proceedings. The Company believes that its liability could amount to a potential loss of approximately $10.0 million. The Company’s best estimate of $3.7 million is recorded in the financial statements. See “Legal Proceedings – Bail and Immigration Bond Proceedings.” At least one of the primary insurers has not yet asserted all losses under the program, and the amount of the potential liability could be greater than presently estimated. Holding Company Structure—Limitation on Dividends SCPIE Holdings is an insurance holding company whose assets consist of all of the outstanding capital stock of SCPIE Indemnity, which in turn owns all of the outstanding capital stock of AHI and AHSIC. As an insurance holding company, SCPIE Holdings’ ability to meet its obligations and to pay dividends, if any, may depend upon the receipt of sufficient funds from SCPIE Indemnity. The payment of dividends to SCPIE Holdings by SCPIE Indemnity is subject to general limitations imposed by California insurance laws. See “Business—Regulation—Regulation of Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries” and “Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Anti-Takeover Provisions SCPIE Holdings’ amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • authorization to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share, in one or more series with such rights, obligations, powers and preferences as the Board of Directors may provide; • a limitation which permits only the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President of SCPIE Holdings to call a special meeting of stockholders; • a prohibition against stockholders acting by written consent; • provisions prohibiting directors from being removed without cause and only by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of voting securities; • provisions allowing the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and to fill vacancies and newly created directorships; 27 Table of Contents • provisions that do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • advance notice procedures for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing business before a meeting of stockholders. The Company is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware general corporation law which, in general, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. An “interested stockholder” is defined generally as a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status, did own, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. The existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the Board of Directors. In addition, state insurance holding company laws applicable to the Company in general provide that no person may acquire control of SCPIE Holdings without the prior approval of appropriate insurance regulatory authorities. See “Business—Regulation—Holding Company Regulation.” The Company has also adopted a rights plan that could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company that is not approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The rights plan provides for preferred stock purchase rights attached to each share of the Company’s Common Stock, which will cause substantial dilution to a person or group acquiring 20% or more of the Company’s outstanding stock if the acquisition is not approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s rights plan expires in May, 2007. Fluctuations in Stock Price The market price of the Company’s common stock price could be subject to significant fluctuations and/or may decline. Among the factors that could affect the Company’s stock price are: • variations in the Company’s operating results; • actions or announcements by our competitors; • actions by institutional and other stockholders • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have recently experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Regulatory and Related Matters Insurance companies are subject to supervision and regulation by the state insurance authority in each state in which they transact business. Such supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of an insurance company’s business and financial condition, including limitations on lines of business, underwriting limitations, the setting of premium rates, the establishment of standards of solvency, statutory surplus requirements, the licensing of insurers and agents, concentration of investments, levels of reserves, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, changes of control, the approval of policy forms, and periodic examinations of the insurance company’s financial statements and records. Such regulation is concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders’ interests rather than stockholders’ interests. See “Business—Regulation.” The Risk-Based Capital rules provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending on the amount of a company’s total adjusted capital compared to its various RBC levels. At December 31, 2006 each of the Insurance Subsidiaries’ RBC exceeded the threshold requiring the least regulatory attention. At December 31, 2006, SCPIE Indemnity’s adjusted surplus level of $164.5 million was 340% of this threshold. State regulatory oversight and various proposals at the federal level may in the future adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and certain 28 Table of Contents state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that alter and, in many cases, increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding company systems. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are reexamining existing laws and regulations, which in many states has resulted in the adoption of certain laws that specifically focus on insurance company investments, issues relating to the solvency of insurance companies, RBC guidelines, interpretations of existing laws, the development of new laws and the definition of extraordinary dividends. See “Business—Regulation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 