ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Risk factors which could cause future financial performance to differ materially from the expectations as expressed in any of FactSet’s forward-looking statements made by or on the Company’s behalf include, without limitation: A decline in equity returns may impact the buying power of FactSet’s investment management clients Major equity indices (e.g., Dow Jones Industrials, Russell 1000, MSCI EAFE, S&P 500 and NASDAQ Composite) and the global economy have experienced increased levels of volatility. Approximately 82% of the Company’s annual subscription value is derived from its investment management clients. The prosperity of these clients is tied to equity assets under management. An equity market decline not only depresses assets under management but could cause a significant increase in redemption requests to move money out of equities and into other asset classes. Moreover, extended declines in the equity markets may reduce new fund or client creation, resulting in lower demand for services from investment managers. Uncertainty, consolidation, and business failures in the global investment banking industry may cause FactSet to lose additional clients and users The global investment banking industry has been experiencing uncertainty, consolidation and business failures since 2008. This consolidation has resulted in a reduction in the number of prospective clients and users within the investment banking sector. FactSet’s sell-side clients who perform M&A advisory work and equity research account for approximately 18% of its revenues. A significant portion of these revenues relate to services deployed by large, bulge bracket banks. The continued lack of available credit continues to impact many of the large banking clients due to the amount of leverage deployed in past operations. Clients could encounter similar problems. A lack of confidence in the global banking system could cause declines in merger and acquisitions funded by debt. Additional uncertainty, consolidation and business failures in the global investment banking sector could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and future growth. A global economic downturn and related market uncertainty may affect FactSet’s revenues and liquidity Current global economic and financial market conditions, and the potential for the prolongation of the global economic recession, could adversely affect FactSet’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The worldwide impact of market uncertainty, including the recent European economic and financial uncertainty related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries could materially impact clients, including large accounts, causing them to: go out of business entirely; defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of the subscriptions they purchase from FactSet in the future; or terminate existing relationships. A variety of other uncontrollable and changing factors, including inflationary pressures; political or social unrest; terrorist attacks; uncertainty in the Middle East and Africa which could impact oil prices; natural disasters in a specific country or region; trade protection measures; and health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic could have a material adverse effect on FactSet’s business and liquidity. FactSet must continue to introduce new products and enhancements to maintain its technological position The market for FactSet is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New technologies or industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products and enhancements that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, and the Company’s new products and enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. Undetected errors or failures found in new products and product enhancements may result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of the Company’s products FactSet’s products may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations at any point, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite significant testing by FactSet and by current and potential clients, errors may not be found in new products until after release, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to the Company’s reputation, client dissatisfaction and reductions in revenues and margins, any of which could seriously harm business. 15 Table of Contents FactSet’s ability to integrate and market FactSet proprietary data as a high quality asset The Company offers proprietary datasets that include the latest, most accurate information available, wherever possible, including fundamentals, estimates, ownership, corporate new issues, people, private equity and venture capital, mergers and acquisitions, corporate events and transcripts, fixed income, global filings and benchmark data. FactSet understands that data is part of a broader investment process, so the Company makes timeliness and reliability a priority. In order to ensure accuracy, timeliness and reliability of the data, FactSet must continue to build on its content collection operations to populate the proprietary content databases. As of August 31, 2011, there were approximately 2,800 employees in Hyderabad and Manila responsible for collecting data on thousands of global companies using a proprietary FactSet collection process. This complex process involves hiring, training and retaining thousands of employees and successfully deploying collection software and processes. Increased competition in FactSet’s industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products. Its competitors range in size from multi-billion dollar companies to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. While the Company believes the breadth and depth of its suite of products and applications offer benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors may offer price incentives to acquire new business. Competitive pricing pressures did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations during fiscal 2011 or in any other fiscal year presented. However, future competitive pricing pressures may result in decreased sales volumes and price reductions, resulting in lower revenues. Weak economic conditions can also result in clients’ seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. The impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries FactSet serves could lower demand for its services. In recent years, FactSet has seen clients intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs as a result of the more challenging market conditions. Clients within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on financial market data and related services. If clients elect to reduce their spending with FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Clients may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial market data services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, by selecting vendors with lower-cost offerings or by self-sourcing their needs for financial market data. If clients elect to consolidate their spending on financial market data services with other vendors and not FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data Many of FactSet’s products, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including client portfolios. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, their misappropriation of client data by an employee or an external third party could occur, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of Company security measures could expose FactSet, its clients or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential clients and damage to the Company brand and reputation. A prolonged or recurring outage at one of FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to rapidly and efficiently process substantial volumes of data and transactions on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. However, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers and any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt FactSet’s operations Despite FactSet’s implementation of network security measures, its servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with the Company’s computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine the Company’s own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations by clients, FactSet’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Malicious, ignorant or illegal employee acts regarding insider information Misappropriation of insider information by an employee could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Improper disclosure of the Company’s insider information could expose FactSet to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential clients and damage to the Company’s brand and reputation. FactSet’s ability to integrate newly acquired companies FactSet has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions from time to time. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into FactSet’s operations, and there can be no assurances that FactSet will manage acquisitions successfully. The related risks include the Company’s failure to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business. FactSet reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price, market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in its industry. FactSet may be required to record a charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on its results of operations. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing datasets or products FactSet is a provider of global financial and economic information on tens of thousands of companies worldwide. Clients have access to the data and content found within these databases, which they can combine and utilize in nearly all of the Company’s applications. These databases are important to the Company’s operations because they provide its clients with key information such as company fundamentals, estimates, global equity ownership, M&A data, events and transcripts, earnings and other equity and fixed income data. FactSet aggregates third-party content from more than 85 data suppliers and over 100 news sources and exchanges. The Company integrates content from premier providers such as Thomson, Standard & Poor’s, FTSE, Interactive Data Corporation, Dow Jones & Company Inc., Northfield Information Services, Inc., Barclays Capital, Intex Solutions, Inc., Bureau van Dijk, MSCI Barra, APT, Global Insight Inc., Morningstar, Inc., Lipper Inc., Russell Investments, Toyo Keizai and Six Telekurs USA Inc. The Company has entered into third-party content agreements with varying lengths from as long as five years to as short as on an ad-hoc basis. The agreements in some cases can be terminated on one year’s notice at predefined dates, in other cases on shorter notice. Certain datasets that FactSet relies on have a limited number of suppliers, although the Company makes every effort to assure that, where reasonable, alternative sources are available. These datasets include (1) Equity Pricing from exchanges such as NASDAQ, (2) Global Exchange Indices, (3) S&P CUSIP distribution, (4) S&P Ratings and (5) Moody’s Investor Service Corporate Ratings. However, FactSet is not dependent on any one third-party data supplier in order to meet the needs of its clients. The Company combines the data from these commercial databases into its own dedicated single online service, which the client accesses to perform their analysis. The failure of FactSet to be able to maintain these relationships or the failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of FactSet’s products or to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary FactSet’s success depends significantly upon its proprietary technology. FactSet has registered trademarks and copyrights for many of its products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. FactSet generally enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, clients, data suppliers and vendors. The Company seeks to protect its software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. While FactSet does not believe it is dependent on any one of its intellectual property rights, the Company does rely on the combination of intellectual property rights and other measures to protect its proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of FactSet content or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use its proprietary information. In addition, FactSet cannot be certain that others will not develop or acquire substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that equivalent or better products will not be marketed in competition with its services, thereby substantially reducing the value of its proprietary rights. Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require the Company to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, enter into settlements, require FactSet to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients or vendors under contractual provisions of various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue incurring expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk. 17 Table of Contents Exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact financial results and cash flows The Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because 67% of FactSet’s employees and 45% of its leased office space are located outside the U.S. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company’s primary exposures relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses within Europe, Japan, India and the Philippines. This exposure has increased over the past twelve months primarily because the Company’s international employee base rose 33% since August 31, 2010. The financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end rates of exchange for assets and liabilities and average rates for the period for revenues and expenses. FactSet’s non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues expected to be recognized over the next twelve months are estimated to be $16 million while its non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses are $165 million, which translates into a net foreign currency exposure of $149 million per year. To manage the exposures related to the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (foreign currency forward contracts). Although FactSet believes that its foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, the Company’s attempt to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on its results of operations. Risks of doing business internationally During fiscal 2011, approximately 31.5% of the Company’s revenue was generated outside the U.S. As of August 31, 2011, the Company employed 3,538 employees outside the U.S., representing 67% of the employee headcount worldwide and a 33% increase in the last twelve months. Because FactSet sells its services outside the U.S, the Company is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations including: the impact of recessions and market fluctuations; adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulty in the enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; difficulties in successfully adapting the Company’s products and services to the language, regulatory and technology standards of other countries; resistance of local cultures to foreign-based companies and difficulties engaging local resources; inflation; natural disasters in developing countries; and political and economic instability. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel The Company’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for talent, including engineering personnel, in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. FactSet’s failure to attract and retain talented employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Resolution of ongoing and other probable audits by tax authorities FactSet is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s provision for income taxes, tax liability or effective tax rates in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before income taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. FactSet is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although FactSet believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on its provision for income taxes and tax liability. Catastrophic events could adversely affect FactSet’s business Catastrophic events such as abrupt political change, terrorist acts, conflicts or wars may cause damage or disruption to the economy, financial markets and FactSet’s clients. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts, wars or political unrest, have created many economic and political uncertainties. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could unsettle the financial markets or result in a decline in the financial industry’s spending, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. Further, such disruptions could cause further instability in the financial markets or the spending of FactSet’s clients and prospects upon which the Company depends on. 18 Table of Contents Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm FactSet’s operating results FactSet is party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. For additional information regarding legal matters, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, contained in Part I of this report. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase expenses or may harm demand Many of FactSet’s clients operate within a highly regulated environment. In light of the recent conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The information provided by, or resident in, the service FactSet provides to its clients could be deemed relevant to a regulatory investigation or other governmental or private legal proceeding involving its clients, which could result in requests for information from FactSet that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, clients subject to investigations or legal proceedings may be adversely impacted possibly leading to their liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, reductions in assets under management, or diminished operations that would adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S., establishes the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”), and will require the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many new rules. While the general framework of the reforms is set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act, it provides for numerous studies and reports and the adoption and implementation of rules and regulations by regulatory agencies over the next four years to clarify and implement the Act’s requirements fully. FactSet believes that it is too early to know the precise long-term impact on its business of the increased regulation of financial institutions. Demand could be negatively impacted by the deferral of purchase decisions by its clients until the new regulations have been adopted and the full impact and expense of the new regulatory environment is more clearly understood. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial institutions of all types, many of which may have an impact on FactSet’s operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the forthcoming implementing rules and regulations will have on the Company and the financial services industry. Additionally, as a publicly-traded company, FactSet is subject to significant regulations including the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) of 2002. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. FactSet’s efforts to comply with these requirements could result in an increase in its operating and compliance costs. Changes in accounting may affect FactSet’s reported earnings and operating income FactSet prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These principles and accompanying accounting standards, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of its business are highly complex and involve judgments. Changes in accounting rules, their interpretation, or changes in the Company’s business could significantly change its reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, FactSet uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management’s knowledge of current events and actions that FactSet may undertake in the future. Significant estimates have been made in areas that include income taxes, useful lives of fixed assets and intangibles, accrued compensation, stock-based compensation, and allocation of purchase price to assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, FactSet makes certain estimates including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore actual results may differ. Internal controls may be ineffective Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, FactSet is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in its implementation, its business and operating results could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 