ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------- Investing in our securities involves a material degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in this annual report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Credit and Business Risks The documents governing our indebtedness restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in some business transactions. We have entered into a loan arrangement with the Shaar Fund, Ltd that is secured by essentially all the assets in the Company that are not related to the receivable line of credit facility with Commerce Funding Corporation (the "New Shaar Note"). The New Shaar Note is used to fund working capital and general corporate requirements. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance was $5,426,233. The agreements governing the Shaar Loan restricts our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, engage in the following actions: o declare or pay dividends on and redeem or repurchase capital stock; o transfer assets or make loans between us and some of our subsidiaries; o make material changes in the nature or conduct of our business; o merge or consolidate with, acquire substantially all of the stock or assets of any other companies; and o transfer or sell assets. Our failure to comply with obligations under the New Shaar Note could result in an event of default. A default, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to remedy any default. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Our Receivables Line of Credit may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in some business transactions. We have entered into a secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") which consists of a one-year, $2 million receivables financing line of credit to fund working capital and general corporate requirements. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance was $141,000. Our failure to comply with obligations under the Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the facility. A default, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we would be able to remedy any default. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. We Have Liquidity Problems and are Uncertain of Our Continued Access to Loans Our current monthly operating expenses exceed cash revenues by approximately $80,000. Currently, this cash shortfall is being covered by loans from The Shaar Fund, Ltd., but The Shaar Fund, Ltd. may discontinue these loans 27 at any time and for any reason. If that happened, we would not be able to meet our current obligations and would be unable to continue operations unless alternative funding was obtained. In addition, we owe $888,000 in loans that are currently due or are payable on demand. Although the lenders on these loans have not yet called the loans, the Company does not currently have the ability to pay these loans absent additional financing. If we are able to obtain financing to cover these obligations, it probably would involve additional dilution to shareholders or additional financial risk to the Company. Our Ability to Operate as a Going Concern is in Doubt The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 consolidated financial statements contains a "going concern" qualification in which they express substantial doubt about our ability to continue in business. As shown in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, the Company incurred losses of $2,714,000, $2,404,000, and $2,957,000, respectively. The Company has also experienced net cash inflows (outflows) from operating activities of ($1,337,000), ($1,532,000), and ($955,000) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 the Company had working capital (deficit) of ($4,586,000) and ($6,389,000) respectively. Overall, the Company has experienced significantly greater revenues and has improved its income/(loss) from operations from (988,000) to (2,000,000) for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Our losses have resulted from a combination of: o costs associated with expansion of our environmental management services business. o large expenditures for infrastructure to support our anticipated future growth; o significant costs associated with our commercialization activities; o financing and interest expenses; o inadequate revenues due to significant delays in our obtaining material project contracts from potential governmental and private-sector customers; and o general and administrative expenses. Until we are able to obtain additional significant environmental services contracts, or one or more large projects for our SET technology, we will continue to experience losses. 28 Our Business Strategy Depends on Business Collaborations In the environmental services and hazardous waste treatment markets, the Company may not be able to enter into favorable business collaborations and might thus be required to bid upon projects for its own account. If such bids were successful, the Company would be required to make significant expenditures on personnel and capital equipment which would require significant financing. Even if the Company is successful in achieving favorable business collaborations, the implementation of such arrangements and the expansion of the Company's business may require the commitment of significant capital resources toward the hiring of technical and operational support personnel, the development of a waste treatment facility for SET, and the building of equipment for on-site remediation of contaminated elements. In the event the Company is presented with one or more significant environmental services contracts, reclamation or clean-up projects, individually or in conjunction with collaborative working partners, it may require additional capital to take advantage of such opportunities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or, if available, that it will be on favorable terms. Our previously reported losses could increase due to our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue, or costs on a contract. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: firm fixed-price, fixed-unit-rate, and time-and-materials award. Under our firm fixed-price and fixed-unit-rate contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor and costs incurred at negotiated contractual rates. Profitability on these contracts is driven by the extent of utilization of our billable personnel and cost control. Accounting for a contract requires judgment relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue, and costs, and on making judgments on other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of several of our contracts, the estimation of overall risks, revenue and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. We may continue to encounter difficulties in pursuing our growth objectives. Although the Department of Energy has indicated that a number of new contracts will be awarded in 2006 and 2007, governmental awards are frequently delayed. Additionally, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in obtaining new federal services business awards. In some instances, we may choose to bid as the lead of a prime contractor team. In the past, we have operated mainly as a subcontractor or in a minority position on the prime contractor team. We expect to be bidding against organizations that have substantially greater resources and experience in being the leading prime contractor or sub-contractor for these kinds of projects. In light of these uncertainties for new business awards in our commercial and federal services business units, our growth plan anticipates pursuing new opportunities for providing services with respect to sampling and data management, low-level radioactive waste treatment at DOE sites in the United States. In many of these potential opportunities, we may not have experience comparable to our current and past experience in our federal and 29 commercial businesses. Thus, we may be subject to a range of risks in obtaining and performing these types of businesses, the adequacy and experience of management, and the adequacy of operational resources and technical capabilities needed to perform these mandates successfully. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in obtaining or performing any new business initiatives in these new business areas. Government Contracting Risks The U.S. government can audit and disallow claims for compensation under our government contracts, and can terminate those contracts without cause. Our government contracts, which are primarily with the DOE and DoD, are, and are expected to continue to be, a significant part of our business. We derived approximately 100% of our consolidated revenues in 2005 and 96% of our consolidated revenues in 2004 from contracts funded by the DOE. The work that we performed for customers that represented greater than 10% of the Company's segment revenues were with a prime contractor, Bechtel Jacobs Engineering. Allowable costs under government contracts are subject to audit by the U.S. government. To the extent that these audits result in determinations that costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowable costs or were not allocated in accordance with Federal government regulations, we could be required to reimburse the U.S. government for amounts previously received. In addition, if we were to lose and not replace our revenues generated by one or more of the U.S. government contracts, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We have a number of contracts and subcontracts with agencies of the U.S. government, principally for environmental services and data management, that extend beyond one year and for which additional government funding has not yet been appropriated. We cannot be certain that the U.S. government will appropriate such funds. All contracts with agencies of the U.S. government are subject to unilateral termination at the option of the customer. In the event of a termination, we would not receive projected revenues or profits associated with the terminated portion of those contracts; however, all costs incurred prior to termination are recoverable in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations. In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions, and a variety of other socioeconomic requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance, and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable laws and contract provisions. As a result of our government contracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements, or statutes. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements, or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level, and our ability to participate in foreign projects funded by the United States could be adversely affected. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues. Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. The inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenues. Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, which increases overall competition and pricing pressure and may 30 require us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenues under these government contracts. In addition, government clients can generally terminate or modify their contracts at their convenience. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. The inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenues. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project. We perform projects jointly with outside partners, entering into subcontracts, joint ventures, and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on particular projects. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to make up for our partner's shortfall. If we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation, and reduced profit or loss on the project. Our future success will likely depend, in part, on the success of our existing collaborative relationships. Collaborative arrangements involve risks that the participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies resulting in potential delays, additional costs, and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory Risks Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. When we perform our hazardous waste treatment services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties, or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. To date, we have been able to obtain liability insurance for the operation of our business. However, there can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate or that it will be able to be maintained or that all possible claims that may be asserted against us will be covered by insurance. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry requiring our customers and us to have and comply with federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Facilities utilizing our hazardous waste treatment technology are required to have federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation, or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals or with environmental and safety laws may adversely affect our operations and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. 31 In addition to regulatory requirements, environmental laws impose joint and several liabilities for the cleanup of contamination upon the current and former owners and operators of contaminated property and on any party who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at a facility that is or becomes contaminated. Such liability is imposed without regard to fault and regardless of knowledge or compliance with environmental requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not face such liability in the future. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we or our customers may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Changes in environmental requirements also may require us to change or improve our waste management technologies and services and incur additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could cause our revenues to decline. A significant amount of our engineering services and hazardous waste treatment business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing Federal and state laws, regulations, and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Federal, state, and local environmental legislation and regulations require substantial expenditures and impose liabilities for noncompliance. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Competition Risks We face increasing competition in the provision of environmental services and waste treatment technologies. The environmental services and hazardous waste treatment industry is characterized by several large companies and numerous small companies. Any of these companies may possess or develop technologies superior to our technologies. In addition, we compete with companies offering environmental services and hazardous waste treatment technologies alternatives. In our services business, our competitors range from major national and regional environmental service and consulting firms with large environmental services staffs to small local firms. To the extent that our competitors offer more cost-effective management technology alternatives or offer comparable services at lower prices, our ability to compete effectively could be adversely affected. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and business development personnel, skilled technical specialists, and experts in a wide range of scientific, engineering, and health and safety fields. Competition for key personnel is intense. We cannot be certain that we will retain our key managerial, business development, and technical personnel or that we will attract or assimilate key personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract such personnel could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are also highly dependent upon the technical expertise and management experience of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our results of 32 operations and financial condition. Senior management is not subject to employment agreements. There are no "key man" life insurance policies on any members of senior management or any other personnel. Other Risks Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions and Potential Adverse Effect on Market Price of Securities from Issuance of Preferred Stock The Company's certificate of incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), and by-laws (the "By-laws") contain certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company, which could limit the ability of security holders to dispose of their shares in such transactions. The Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Such preferred stock could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock, or could result in one or more classes of outstanding securities that would have dividend, liquidation or other rights superior to those of the Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock. Issuance of such preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the then prevailing market price of the Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock. Additionally, the Company is subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware general corporate law (DGCL), which prohibits the Company from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Section 203 of the DGCL could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company. Our Charter Contains Authorized, Unissued Preferred Stock That May Inhibit A Change Of Control Of Our Company Under Circumstances That Could Give You An Opportunity To Realize A Premium Over Prevailing Market Prices Of Our Securities. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the company under circumstances that could give stockholders an opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon terms as it may determine. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of future holders of preferred stock. In addition, our by-laws require stockholders to provide advance notice to nominate candidates for election as directors and to submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law makes it more difficult for an "interested stockholder" (generally a 15% stockholder) to effect various business combinations with a corporation for a three-year period after the stockholder becomes an "interested stockholder." In general, these provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire our company and, therefore, may inhibit a change of control of our company The value of our Common Stock could continue to be volatile. Our Common Stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our Common Stock may continue to fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our Common Stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: 33 o quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; o ability to continue to finance any shortfalls in cash flows which currently average $80,000 per month: o conversion of our convertible debt and preferred stock instruments into the Company's common stock will be dilutive; o announcements of new contracts or technological development; o announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; o resolution of threatened or pending litigation; o status of our collaborative arrangements or those of competitors; o changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; o investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; o changes in environmental legislation; o patent or proprietary rights developments; o broader market fluctuations; and o general economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options, the value of which are dependent on the performance of our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock. Our quarterly revenue, expenses, and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: o unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; o the timing of resolutions on requests for equitable adjustments ("REAs"), and other contract adjustments; o the seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the Federal government, and the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients; o employee staff levels and utilization rates; o the ability of our clients to terminate engagements without penalties; o delays incurred in connection with an engagement; o the size and scope of engagements; o changes in the prices of services offered by our competitors; o changes in accounting rules; and o general economic or political conditions. 34 Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in net losses. Absence of Dividends on Common Stock The Company has never declared or paid any dividends on its Common Stock. The declaration and payment in the future of any cash or stock dividends on the Common Stock will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company and will depend upon a variety of factors, including the ability of the Company to service its outstanding indebtedness, the Company's future earnings, if any, capital requirements, financial condition and such other factors as the Company's Board of Directors may consider to be relevant from time to time. Pursuant to the terms governing the Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company's Board of Directors may not declare dividends payable to the holders of Common Stock unless and until all accrued cash dividends through the most recent past annual payment date have been paid in full to the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock. Earnings of the Company, if any, not paid as dividends to holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are expected to be retained for use in expanding the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company does not expect to declare or pay any dividends on its Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Potential Adverse Effect on Market Price of Securities from Future Sales of Common Stock Assuming the conversion of all securities convertible into Common Stock and the exercise of all warrants and options to purchase Common Stock using the closing stock quote as April 5, 2006, the Company will have approximately 51,214,691 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Of such shares, 27,814,469 shares of Common Stock will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, subject, if purchased by "affiliates" of the Company, to the volume and certain other limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. The remaining 23,400,222 shares of Common Stock are "restricted securities" as defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, and may only be sold in the public market if such shares are registered under the Securities Act or sold in accordance with Rule 144 or another exemption from registration under the Securities Act. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the Common Stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock (including shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock and the exercise of outstanding warrants and stock options), or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Common Stock. If such sales reduce the market price of the Common Stock, the Company's ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets could be adversely affected. Future Sales Of Our Common Stock May Have A Depressive Effect On The Market Price Of Our Stock Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that those sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. On a fully-diluted basis (not including the shares of our common stock underlying any of our outstanding convertible preferred stock or the conversion feature of the New Shaar Note), approximately 13,977,679 shares of our common stock would be outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Of such 35 shares, 12,282,389 shares would be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, except to the extent those shares are held by our "affiliates." The remaining 1,695,290 shares are "restricted securities" as defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, and may only be sold in the public market if those shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or sold in accordance with Rule 144 or another exemption from registration. Our Stock Price Could Decline Due to Sales of Shares Issued upon Conversion of the Series J Convertible Preferred Stock or the New Shaar Note or by Short Sales. To the extent the Series J convertible preferred stock and/or the balance of the New Shaar Note are converted into shares of our common stock, or dividends in respect of those securities are paid in shares of our common stock rather than cash, a significant number of additional shares of common stock may be sold into the market, which could decrease the price of our common stock due to additional supply of shares relative to demand in the market. In that case, we could be required to issue an increasingly greater number of shares of our common stock upon future conversions of Series J convertible preferred stock and /or the exercise of the conversion feature on the New Shaar Note, sales of which could further depress the price of our common stock and have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment. Moreover, since the conversion prices of the Series J convertible preferred stock and the conversion feature on the New Shaar Note will be based on the average of the closing prices of our common stock over a period of ten trading days prior to conversion, but in no case greater than $0.50 per share or less than $0.05 per share, the conversion prices could be less than the actual market price of our common stock on the date of conversion. If the sale of a large amount of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Series J convertible preferred stock and the exercise of the conversion feature on the New Shaar Note results in a decline in the price of our common stock, this event could encourage short sales of our common stock by stockholders, or margin calls upon investors in our common stock. Short sales or margin calls could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. No corporation actions requiring stockholder approval can take place without the approval of our controlling stockholders. The executive officers, directors, and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 42 percent of our voting stock. These stockholders acting together or with others would be able to decide or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or other business combination transaction, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 