ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Risk factors which could cause future financial performance to differ materially from the expectations as expressed in any of FactSet’s forward-looking statements made by or on the Company’s behalf include, without limitation: FactSet must continue to introduce new products and enhancements to maintain its technological position The market for FactSet is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New technologies or industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products and enhancements that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, and the Company’s new products and enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data Many of FactSet’s products, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including client portfolios. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if FactSet experiences difficulties in their implementation, their misappropriation of client data by an employee or an external third party could occur, which could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of Company security measures could expose FactSet, its clients or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential clients and damage to the Company brand and reputation. Competition in FactSet’s industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products. Its competitors range in size from multi-billion dollar companies to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. While the Company believes the breadth and depth of its suite of products and applications offer benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors may offer price incentives to acquire new business. Competitive pricing pressures did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations during fiscal 2014 or in any other fiscal year presented. However, future competitive pricing pressures may result in decreased sales volumes and price reductions, resulting in lower revenues. Weak economic conditions can also result in clients’ seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. The impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries FactSet serves could lower demand for its services. In recent years, FactSet has seen clients intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs as a result of the more challenging market conditions. Clients within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on financial market data and related services. If clients elect to reduce their spending with FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Clients may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial market data services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, by selecting vendors with lower-cost offerings or by self-sourcing their needs for financial market data. If clients elect to consolidate their spending on financial market data services with other vendors and not FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Volatility in the financial markets may delay the spending pattern of clients and reduce future ASV growth Sales cycles for FactSet can fluctuate and be extended in times where the financial markets are volatile. The decision to purchase the FactSet service often requires management-level sponsorship. As a result, FactSet often engages in relatively lengthy sales efforts. Purchases (and incremental ASV) may therefore be delayed because uncertainties in the financial markets can cause clients to remain cautious about capital and data content expenditures, particularly in uncertain economic environments. The cycle associated with the purchase of the Company’s service offerings depends upon the size of the client. Uncertainty, consolidation, and business failures in the global investment banking industry may cause FactSet to lose additional clients and users FactSet’s sell-side clients that perform M&A advisory work, capital markets services and equity research, account for approximately 17.4% of its revenues. A significant portion of these revenues relate to services deployed by large, bulge bracket banks. While improvements have been observed in the current fiscal year, the global investment banking industry continues to experience uncertainty, consolidation and business failures, which directly impacts the number of prospective clients and users within the investment banking sector. A lack of available credit would impact many of the large banking clients due to the amount of leverage deployed in past operations. Clients could encounter similar problems. A lack of confidence in the global banking system could cause declines in merger and acquisitions funded by debt. Uncertainty, consolidation and business failures in the global investment banking sector could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and future growth. A decline in equity returns and/or fixed income may impact the buying power of investment management clients Approximately 82.6% of the Company’s annual subscription value is derived from its investment management clients. The prosperity of these clients is tied to equity assets under management. An equity market decline not only depresses assets under management but could cause a significant increase in redemption requests to move money out of equities and into other asset classes. Moreover, extended declines in the equity markets may reduce new fund or client creation, resulting in lower demand for services from investment managers. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for FactSet In recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the Internet, and this trend may continue. The availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for FactSet. While the Company believes its service offering is distinguished by such factors as customization, timeliness, accuracy, ease-of-use, completeness and other added value factors, if users choose to obtain the information they need from public or other sources, FactSet’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel The Company’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for talent, including engineering personnel, in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. FactSet’s failure to attract and retain talented employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact financial results and cash flows The Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because 69% of FactSet’s employees and 45% of its leased office space are located outside the U.S. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company’s primary exposures relate to expenses denominated in British Pound Sterling, Euros, Japanese Yen, Indian Rupee and Philippines Peso. This exposure has increased over the past 12 months primarily because the Company’s international employee base has risen 5% since August 31, 2013. FactSet’s non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues expected to be recognized over the next twelve months are estimated to be $28 million while its non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses are $196 million, which translates into a net foreign currency exposure of $168 million. Although FactSet believes that its foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, the Company’s attempt to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on its results of operations. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing datasets or products FactSet is a provider of global financial and economic information on companies worldwide. Clients have access to the data and content found within these databases, which they can combine and utilize in nearly all of the Company’s applications. These databases are important to the Company’s operations because they provide its clients with key information such as company fundamentals, estimates, global equity ownership, M&A data, events and transcripts, earnings and other equity and fixed income data. FactSet aggregates third party content from more than 190 data suppliers, 90 news sources and 80 exchanges. The Company has entered into third party content agreements with varying lengths. The agreements in some cases can be terminated on one year’s notice at predefined dates, in other cases on shorter notice. 14 Certain datasets that FactSet relies on have a limited number of suppliers, although the Company makes every effort to assure that, where reasonable, alternative sources are available. These datasets include, without limitation, (1) Equity Pricing from exchanges such as NASDAQ, (2) Global Exchange Indices, (3) S&P CUSIP distribution, (4) S&P Ratings and (5) Moody’s Investor Service Corporate Ratings. However, FactSet is not dependent on any one third party data supplier in order to meet the needs of its clients. The Company combines data from commercial databases into its own dedicated single online service, which the client accesses to perform their analysis. The failure of FactSet to be able to maintain these relationships or the failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require the Company to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, enter into settlements, require FactSet to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients or vendors under contractual provisions of various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue incurring expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk. A prolonged or recurring outage at FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to rapidly and efficiently process substantial volumes of data and transactions on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. However, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers and any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective. Resolution of ongoing and other probable audits by tax authorities FactSet is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s provision for income taxes, tax liability or effective tax rates in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before income taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. FactSet is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although FactSet believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, including its provision for income taxes. Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm FactSet’s operating results FactSet is party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. For additional information regarding legal matters, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, contained in Part I of this report. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase expenses or may harm demand Many of FactSet’s clients operate within a highly regulated environment. In light of the recent conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, the U.S. Congress and Federal regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The information provided by, or resident in, the service FactSet provides to its clients could be deemed relevant to a regulatory investigation or other governmental or private legal proceeding involving its clients, which could result in requests for information from FactSet that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, clients subject to investigations or legal proceedings may be adversely impacted possibly leading to their liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, reductions in assets under management, or diminished operations that would adversely affect the Company’s revenues. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 