ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results Negative developments in the latter portion of 2007 and during 2008 in the national economy and capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 and beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts and sales in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenged, our business may be adversely affected. Prolonged adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Any adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 84% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of this amount, approximately 66% were commercial real estate loans, 20% were residential real estate loans and 14% were construction and development loans. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Florida could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders, developers and individuals. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $147.3 million of our loan portfolio represents loans for construction and vacant land. Land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential or commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase further and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may negatively impact our capital and earnings. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Banks to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Banks’ earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Florida, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Additionally, the availability of property insurance, including windstorm and flood insurance, and the significant increases in the cost thereof in the Florida market may negatively affect borrowers’ abilities to repay existing loans and the abilities of potential borrowers to qualify for new loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Banks often secure their loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 87% of the Banks’ loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to residential mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2008, our non-performing loans have increased significantly to $39.8 million, or 3.3% of our loan portfolio. Furthermore, the housing and residential mortgage markets continue to experience a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of the real estate collateralizing our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. 13 Table of Contents The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we may face increased delinquencies and non-performing assets if builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Our indirect lending program has experienced significant charge-offs and losses in this portfolio beginning in 2007 and continuing in 2008. We may continue to experience significant losses in this portfolio. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers primarily located in Southwest Florida. We began this program in 2002 and as of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $82 million of indirect loans outstanding. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, they involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, and changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are collateralized, they are collateralized by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. Due to the economic slowdown in Southwest Florida, we are currently experiencing significantly higher delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio. If the economy continues to contract, we may continue to experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs. Loan Portfolio includes commercial real estate loans that have higher risks The Banks’ commercial real estate loan portfolio was $658.5 million at December 31, 2008, comprising 54% of total loans. Commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by the Banks’ customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial real estate loan, the Banks may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Banks knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans collaterized by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Banks may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans are such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. 14 Table of Contents Possible use of more costly brokered deposits We can offer no assurance that the Banks will be able to maintain or increase their market share of deposits in their highly competitive service areas. If they are unable to do so, they may be forced to accept increased amounts of out-of-market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2008, the Banks had $154.8 million of brokered deposits. At times, the cost of out-of-market and brokered deposits may exceed the cost of deposits in the local market. In addition, the cost of out-of-market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if the Banks are unable to access these markets or if costs related to out-of-market and brokered deposits increases, the Banks’ liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. If the Banks become less than well capitalized for regulatory purposes, their continued access to brokered deposits may be limited by the FDIC. Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion On February 13, 2009, the Company’s lead bank, TIB Bank, assumed all the non-brokered deposits of Riverside Bank of the Gulf Coast from the FDIC. In addition, we may acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. 15 Table of Contents The fair value of our debt securities may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, we owned three collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by corporate obligations of homebuilders, REITS, real estate companies and commercial mortgage backed securities with an original principal balance of $10.0 million. During 2007 and 2008, these securities were determined to be other than temporarily impaired. During 2007, they were written down to an aggregate carrying value of $6.1 million at December 31, 2007. In 2008, there were additional defaults by the underlying issuers and the estimated decline in value was determined to be other than temporary. Accordingly, we wrote these securities down to their aggregate fair value of $763,000 at December 31, 2008. Two of these securities with an original principal value of $4 million are now carried at no value. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the fair value of these and other securities. If such decline is determined to be other than temporary, we will write them down through a charge to earnings to their then current fair value. Our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. Our primary strategy for building market share in Southwest Florida is based on establishing new branches. We currently plan to open one additional branch in each of 2009 and 2010. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Our continued growth and our recent operating results may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources as a result of the recent sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or to offset possible future operating loses, if our operating results do not improve. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Banks receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Banks’ ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate, or CRE, is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 54% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans. The banking regulators are more closely scrutinizing CRE lending and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement more rigorous underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. In addition, under legislation enacted in 2009, recipients of investment under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program are subject to restrictions on the payment of incentive compensation, severance compensation, stock based compensation and change-in-control compensation to certain senior officers, which also may have an effect on our ability to retain key personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly deploy the capital raised in our recent sale of preferred stock. We may not be able to immediately deploy all of the capital raised in the recent sale of the Series A preferred stock to the Treasury. Investing the offering proceeds in securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds will provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely affecting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, return on assets and return on equity. Risk Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Future capital needs could result in dilution of shareholders’ investments. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our shareholders which may adversely impact our shareholders. Furthermore, future additional dilution may result from exercises of outstanding stock options and warrants. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock is less liquid and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The NASDAQ National Market during 2008 was approximately 17,611 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital and is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Banks and cash available at the holding company. The ability of the Banks to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to state banks that are regulated by the FDIC. While we have suspended the payment of cash dividends on our common stock commencing in July, 2008, if we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to recommence payment of cash dividends on our common stock if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay dividends is also limited by the terms of our Series A preferred stock. As long as any shares of Series A preferred stock are outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends, for all prior dividend periods, have been paid or are contemporaneously paid, no cash dividends may be paid on our common stock. Based on the level of undistributed earnings of TIB Bank for the prior two years, declaration of dividends by TIB Bank during 2009, would likely require regulatory approval. The Bank of Venice has no retained earnings available for dividends. 18 Table of Contents Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our preferred and common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $33 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of Series A preferred stock and common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our preferred stock and common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our Series A preferred stock and common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our preferred and common stock. Our preferred shares impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share As long as there are Series A preferred shares outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the preferred shares have been paid in full. The dividends accrued or declared on our Series A preferred shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the Series A preferred shares, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The Series A preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. We have issued warrants to purchase our common stock which may be dilutive to ownership, earnings per share and book value per share when exercised. In connection with the issuance of 1.2 million shares of our common stock on March 7, 2008, we issued warrants to purchase an additional 1.2 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $8.15 per share at any time prior to March 11, 2011. In connection with the issuance of $37 million of our Series A preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we issued warrants to purchase 1.1 million shares of common stock at $5.17 per share at any time prior to December 5, 2018. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, which are senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, common stock, warrants, or other securities convertible into common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any written comments during 2008 from the Commission staff regarding our periodic and current reports under the Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved from any prior period. ITEM 