ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section when evaluating our business. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenue and profitability) could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our stock may decline. Volatile and uncertain economic conditions and affect of these conditions on our clients could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our business Global economic conditions affect our clients’ businesses and may, therefore, affect our business and our profitability. We generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our employees devote to our clients’ customers, and our clients’ willingness to invest in their customer relationships. Consequently, our revenue depends on consumers’ interest in and use of our clients’ products and services, which may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. The protracted economic downturn or slower than expected economic recovery may impact our clients’ willingness to procure our technology and strategic consulting services and may impact products and services that require their customers to use our customer care services. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if any of our major clients were unable to pay for our services due to volatile economic conditions. A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients and the loss of one or more of our clients could cause adversely effect on our business We rely on strategic, long-term relationships with large, global companies in targeted industries. As a result, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from relatively few clients. Our five and ten largest clients collectively represented 40% and 56% of our revenue in 2013; while the largest client represented 12% of our revenue in 2013. Although we have multiple engagements with each of our largest clients and all contracts are unlikely to terminate at the same time, the contracts with our five largest clients expire between 2014 and 2016 and there can be no assurance that these contracts will continue to be renewed or be renewed on favorable terms. The loss of all or part of a major client’s business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, if the loss of revenue was not replaced with profitable business from other clients. Client consolidation could result in a loss of business that would adversely affect our operating results We serve clients in industries that have historically experienced a significant level of consolidation. If one of our clients is acquired by another company (including another one of our clients) our business volume and revenue may materially decrease due to the termination or phase out of an existing client contract, volume discounts or other contract concessions which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The current trend to outsource customer care business may not continue and the amount of business that our clients outsource and the prices that they are willing to pay for the services may diminish, adversely affecting our business Our growth depends, in large part, on the willingness of our clients and potential clients to outsource customer care and management services to companies like TeleTech. There can be no assurance that customer care outsourcing trend will continue; and our clients and potential clients may elect to perform in-house customer care and management services that they currently outsource. Reduction in demand for our services and increased competition from other providers and in-house service alternatives would create pricing pressures and excess capacity that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Our markets are highly competitive and we might not be able to compete effectively The markets where we offer our services are highly competitive. Our future performance is largely dependent on our ability to compete successfully in markets we currently serve, while expanding into new, lucrative markets. We compete with large multinational service providers (including the service arms of global technology providers); offshore service providers from lower-cost jurisdictions that offer similar services, often at highly competitive prices and more aggressive contract terms; niche solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that rely on new technologies or delivery models; and in-house functions of large companies that use their own resources rather than outsourcing customer care services we provide. Some of our competitors have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete. Further, the recent trend of consolidation in the technology sector and among business process outsourcing competitors may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint, better technologies and price efficiencies attractive to our clients. If we are unable to compete successfully and provide our clients with superior service and solutions at competitive prices, we could lose market share and clients to competitors, which would materially adversely effect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our reputation can be irreparably damaged and we may lose business and have liability if we fail to protect client or TeleTech data as required by law or contract, or if our information systems are breached We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients and vendors. As the complexity of information infrastructure continuous to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber attacks increase. Such breaches can lead to shutdowns or systems interruptions, and potential unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information. As part of our business we manage client, clients’ customer, and TeleTech data, including personally identifiable information. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, including U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information; the European Union Directive on Data Protection; and the Australian Privacy Acts. These and similar laws and regulations that impact our business are increasing in complexity, change frequently, and at times conflict among the various jurisdictions where we do business. If third parties gain unauthorized access to our information systems or our employees negligently or intentionally breach our established data and information security controls or otherwise misappropriate data, we may be subject to negative publicity, our reputation could be irreparably damaged, and we may lose clients and our ability to secure new clients; we could also be subject to legal liability, monitory damages, significant remediation costs, and regulatory enforcement actions, resulting in material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover us against claims related to information security breaches and cyber attacks. 8 Table of Contents Our service delivery model is concentrated in certain geographies which may expose us to significant operational risks We have delivery centers in 14 countries around the globe, but a large portion of our delivery capacity is concentrated in the Philippines and Latin America. High concentration of our delivery network in few locations leads to certain operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. Natural disasters (floods, winds and earthquakes), terrorist attacks, pandemics, insufficient infrastructure (such as large-scale utilities outages, telecommunication and transportation disruptions), labor or political unrest, and restriction on repatriation of funds may interrupt or limit our ability to operate our delivery centers or increase the cost of our operations. Our dependence on our delivery facilities in the Philippines, which is subject to frequent severe weather, natural disasters, and occasional security threats, represents a particular risk. This geographic concentration can result in material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we procure business interruption insurance to cover some of these exposures, adequate insurance may not be available on an ongoing basis for a reasonable price. Our commercial success is subject to the terms of our client contracts Many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Although most of our contracts in the business process outsourcing business can be terminated for convenience, our relationships with our top five clients have ranged from seven to 18 years with the majority of these clients having completed multiple contract renewals with us. Yet, our contracts, do not guarantee a minimum revenue level or profitability, and clients may terminate them or materially reduce customer interaction volumes which would reduce our earning potential. This could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and makes our projections of results of operations problematic. Many of our contracts utilize performance pricing that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance criteria, which could increase the variability of our revenue and operating margin. A majority of our contracts include performance clauses that condition our fees on the achievement of agreed-upon performance criteria. These performance criteria can be complex, and at times they are not entirely within our control. If we fail to satisfy our contract performance metrics, our revenue under the contracts and our operating margin are reduced. We may not always offset increased costs with increased fees under long-term contracts. Not all our larger long-term contracts allow for escalation of fees as our cost of operations increase. While many of our contracts allow periodic fee adjustments based on increases in certain price indices, in the past several years, our payroll costs, including healthcare costs, have increased at rates much greater than increases in these indices. If we cannot negotiate long-term contract terms that provide for fee adjustments to reflect increases in our cost of service delivery, our business, financial conditions and results of operation would be materially impacted. Our contracts seldom address the impacts of currency fluctuation on our costs of delivery. As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as Australian dollar against the US dollar and Philippine peso, could increase costs for our delivery at offshore sites by increasing our labor and other costs that are denominated in local currencies. Our contractual provisions, cost management efforts, and currency hedging activities may not be able to offset the currency fluctuation impact, resulting in the decrease of the profitability of our contracts. Our pricing depends on effectiveness of our forecasting of the level of effort. Pricing for our services in our technology and strategic consulting businesses is highly contingent on our ability to accurately forecast the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver our services, which is data dependent and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. The inaccurate level of effort in project estimates could yield lower profit margins or become unprofitable, resulting in adverse impacts on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We face special risks associated with our business outside of the United States An important component of our growth strategy is continued operations outside of the United States and international expansion. In 2013 we derived approximately 22% of our revenue from operations outside of the United States. Conducting business abroad is subject to a variety of risks, including: · currency exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on currency movement, and impact of international tax laws could adversely affect our results of operations, if we are forced to maintain assets in currencies other than the US dollars, while our financial results are reported in US dollars; · longer payment cycles and/or difficulties in accounts receivable collections could impact our cash flows and results of operations; · political and economic instability and unexpected changes in regulatory regimes could adversely affect our ability to deliver services overseas and our ability to repatriate cash; · inconsistent regulations, licensing and legal requirements may increase our cost of operations as we endeavor to comply with myriad of laws that differ from one country to another; · terrorist attacks and civil unrests in some of the countries where we do business (e.g. increasing tension in the Middle East and Latin America), and the resulting need for enhanced security measures may impact our ability to deliver services, threaten the safety of our employees, and increase our costs of operations; and · special challenges in managing risks inherent in international operations, such as unique and prescriptive labor rules and corrupt business environments may cause an inadvertent violation of laws that we may not be able to immediately detect or correct. While we are monitoring and endeavoring to timely mitigate the relevant regulatory, geopolitical and other risk factors related to our operations outside of the United States, we cannot assess with certainty what impact such risks are likely to have over time on business and can provide no assurance that we will always be able to mitigate these risks successfully and avoid material impact to our business and results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency exchange risk We serve many of our clients from delivery centers outside of the United States in Canada, Costa Rica, Mexico, and the Philippines. The contracts for these services are typically priced, invoiced, and paid in U.S. dollars or other currencies, while the costs incurred to operate these delivery centers are denominated in the functional currency of the applicable operating subsidiary. The fluctuations between the currencies of the contract and operating currencies present foreign currency exchange risks. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately 32% of our revenue is derived from contracts denominated in other currencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies. While we hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully manage this foreign currency exchange risk and avoid adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Compliance with laws, including unexpected changes to such laws could adversely affect our results of operations Our business is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and foreign national, state and provincial authorities relating to confidential client and customer data, customer communications, telemarketing practices, and licensed healthcare and financial services activities, among other areas. Costs and complexity of compliance with existing and future regulations could adversely affect our profitability. If we fail to comply with regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, monitory damages and fines. Private lawsuits and enforcement actions by regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs of operations and impact our ability to serve our clients. As we provide services to clients’ customers residing in 90 countries, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, communication content requirements, trade restrictions and sanctions, tariffs, taxation, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations could impact our reputation and result in financial liability, criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and breach of our contractual commitments. Adverse changes in laws or regulations that impact our business may negatively affect the sale of our services, slow the growth of our operations, or mandate changes to how we deliver our services, including our ability to use offshore resources. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets. Our failure to deliver uninterrupted service to our clients could cause a reduction in our revenue and operating results Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our facilities, computer and telecommunications equipment, software systems, wireline and GigaPOP® networks, including transport facilities, communications switches, routers, and other equipment against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, terrorist or cyber attacks, sabotage, telecommunications interruption or failure, labor shortages, weather conditions, natural disasters and other similar force majeure events. Severe weather can cause our employees to miss work and interrupt the delivery of our services, resulting in a loss of revenue. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our locations (including our corporate headquarters), we may be required to pay contractual damages or face the suspension or loss of clients’ business. Further, the impacts associated with global climate change, such as rising sea levels or increased and intensified storm activity, may cause increased business interruptions or may require the relocation of our facilities located in low-lying coastal areas. The failure to deliver uninterrupted service to our clients could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our financial results depend on our capacity utilization, in particular our ability to forecast demand and make corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and operating expenses Our delivery center utilization rates have a substantial and direct effect on our profitability and are affected by a number of factors, including our ability to fluctuate delivery center capacity with demand during peak and non-peak hours; our ability to predict customer demand for our services and make timely corresponding decisions regarding staffing levels, investments and other operating expenditures in each of our delivery center locations; our ability to hire and train new employees to address demand and manage employee turnover. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain desired delivery center capacity utilization, because quarterly variations in client volumes, many of which are outside our control, can have a material adverse effect on our utilization rates. In light of our very high fixed costs of operation, if our utilization rates are below expectations in any given period, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to meet our strategic growth and profitability objectives depends on how effectively we manage our contact center capacity. Ours is a labor-intensive business and a significant portion of our operating costs include wages, employment benefits and taxes. Our growth depends on our ability to find cost-effective operations locations in and outside of the United States, but there are no assures that we will always be able to find such cost effective locations. Some of our delivery centers are located in countries that have experienced rising standards of living, which may in turn require us to increase employee wages; and there can be no assurance that we can pass these additional costs along to our clients. The increases in labor costs, unless offset by clients, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to consolidate or close underutilized or under-performing delivery centers, and we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. People are an important asset of our business and our inability to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel in balance with the demand of our clients can adversely impact our operations Our business success depends on contributions of senior management and key personnel. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key senior management staff is conditioned on our willingness to pay adequate compensation and incentives. We compete for top senior staff candidates with other, often larger, companies that at times have access to greater resources. Our ability to attract senior managers is also impacted by our requirement that members of senior staff sign non-compete agreements as a condition to join TeleTech. If we are not able to attract and retain industry leaders, we would be unable to compete effectively and our growth may be limited, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, and prospects. If we are not able to recruit, hire, train and retain qualified employees, our business will be adversely affected. Our business is labor intensive and our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Demand for qualified professionals with multiple language capabilities, and fluency in English, may exceed supply, as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving technologies. We generally experience high employee turnover and are continuously recruiting and train replacement staff. Some of our facilities are located in geographies with low unemployment, which makes it costly to hire personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel and costs associated with wages, attracting, training, or retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected if we cannot adapt our services and solutions in response to changes in technology Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement technology, consulting and outsourcing services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology. Areas of significant change include mobility, cloud-based computing, and processing and analyzing large and unstructured data. Our growth and profitability will dependent on our ability to develop new technologies that expand our existing solutions and service offerings to leverage new technological developments, and achieve cost efficiencies in our operations. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to new technology developments; our integration of new technologies may not achieve their intended cost reductions; and services and technologies offered by competitors may make our service offerings obsolete. Our failure to innovate, maintain technological advantage, or respond effectively and timely to transformational changes in technology could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our credit facility contains covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business or execute on our strategy Our credit facility contains common operating and financial covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on how we operate our business and require us to meet quarterly certain financial metrics. Complying with these covenant restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain activities, including incurring additional indebtedness, making certain investments and capital expenditures, acquisitions, selling certain assets, stock repurchases, payment of existing obligations, or replenishment of cash reserves. 12 Table of Contents As a result of these covenant restrictions, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet the financial covenants under our credit facility, or that in the event of noncompliance, will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from the lenders. If we fail to comply with the covenants the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facilities, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, and there can be no assurance that the business would have adequate resources to comply with the accelerated repayment schedule or that the assets securing such indebtedness would be sufficient to repay it in full that indebtedness, which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. Disruption to our supply chain for the Customer Technology Services segment could adversely affect our business Any disruption to the suppliers for our Customer Technology Services segment or to our Customer Technology Services distribution capabilities due to weather, man-caused or natural disaster, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, or acts of god could impair the Customer Technology Services segment’s ability to sell its products and services. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate potential impacts of such disruptions, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Intellectual property infringement by us and by others may adversely impact our ability to innovate and compete Our services or solutions could infringe intellectual property of others impacting our ability to deploy them with clients. There can be no assurance that services and solutions we utilize in our business or offer to clients do not infringe the intellection property rights of others. From time to time, we and members of our supply chain received assertions that our service offerings or technology infringes on the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. These claims could require us to cease activities or to incur expensive licensing costs or engage in costly litigation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operation. Our intellectual property may not always receive favorable treatment from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office or similar foreign intellectual property adjudication and registration agencies; and our “patent pending” intellectual property may not receive a patent or may be subject to prior art limitations. The lack of legal system sophistication in certain countries where we do business or lack of commitment to protection of intellectual property rights, may prevent us from being able to defend our intellectual property and related technology against infringement by others, leading to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth of our operations could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer We plan to continue growing our business organically through aggressive expansion and sales efforts and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining tight controls on our expenses and overhead. Lean overhead functions combined with focused growth may place a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources, resulting in internal control failures, missed opportunities and staff attrition which could impact our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We might not be successful in indentifying, acquiring or integrating businesses in accordance with our strategy We expect to continue pursuing acquisitions and joint ventures to enhance our service offerings and to expand into new markets. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition targets or joint venture opportunities that fit our accretive acquisition strategy; or in executing the acquisitions at the right price point and risk allocation; or we may fail to achieve appropriate results of operation, once the acquisition is completed; or may be unable to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and retain key personnel and achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated, causing us to incur additional costs to fund operations and to impair the assets recorded through our acquisitions. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions and joint ventures that we planned or if we are unsuccessful in our acquisition integration efforts, we may not be able to achieve our planned growth rates or improve our market share, profitability, or competitive position in specific markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our returns on invested capital, our business and on the market value of our common stock. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls majority of our stock and has control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders Kenneth D. Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, directly and beneficially owns approximately 62.5% of TeleTech’s common stock. As a result, Mr. Tuchman could exercise control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including the election of our entire Board of Directors. Therefore, a change in control of our company could not be effected without his approval. Our results of operation and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls Any internal and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. The design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individuals acting alone or in collusion with others to override controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the design of a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not always be prevented or timely detected. Our management is required to furnish a report regarding the effectiveness of TeleTech’s internal controls over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective now or in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Continuing expansion of our service offerings into new areas subject our business to different operational risk than our tradition business process outsourcing business We continue to expand our services and solutions into new business areas such as technology and analytics, focused customer care consulting and technology development and integration services. Expanding into new areas and providing services to new types of clients may expose us to additional operational and regulatory risks specific to these new areas. While our business process outsourcing contracts are usually long term arrangements, most consulting service contracts are short lived and require aggressive sales and contract renewal process; the services are usually paid based on milestone attainment that may be subject to subjective determination of achievement. Unless we clearly understand and manage special risks involved in providing technology and strategic consulting services, our business may be materially adversely affected impacting our results of operations and financial position. 14 Table of Contents The volatility of our stock price may result in loss of investment Our share price has been and may continue to be subject to substantial fluctuation. We believe that market prices of outsourced customer care management services stock in general have experienced volatility and such volatility will affect our stock price. As we continue to diversify our service offerings to include growth, technology and strategic consulting, our stock price volatility may stabilize or it may be further impacted by stock price fluctuations in these new relevant industries. In addition to fluctuations specific to our industry and service offerings, we believe that various other factors such as general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, and changing market condition for our clients could impact the valuation of our stock. The quarterly variations in our financial results, acquisition and divestiture announcements by us or our competitors, strategic partnerships and new service offering, our failure to meet our growth objectives or exceeding our targets, and securities analysts’ perception about our performance could cause the market price of our shares to fluctuate substantially in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2013 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 