ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks. Some of such risks may give rise to occurrences that cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. In the following paragraphs, we describe our present view of certain important strategic risks, although the risks below are not the only risks we face. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be affected materially and adversely. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with our management’s discussion and analysis, beginning on page 16 hereof, and our consolidated financial statements, beginning on page 47 hereof. General economic conditions, such as economic downturns or recessions, could materially impair our customers’ ability to repay loans, harm our operating results and reduce our volume of new loans. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions. Economic downturns or recessions, either nationally, internationally or in the states within our footprint, could materially reduce our operating results. An economic downturn could negatively impact demand for our loan and deposit products, the demand for insurance and brokerage products, the number of customers who cannot pay interest or principal on their loans and the demand for our other fee-based services. The fee revenue of our asset management segments including income from our Scout Investment Advisors and UMB Fund Services, Inc. subsidiaries, are largely dependent on both inflows to, and the fair value of, assets invested in the UMB Scout Funds and the fund clients to whom we provide services. General economic conditions can affect investor sentiment and confidence in the overall securities markets which could adversely affect asset values, net flows to these funds and other assets under management. Our bankcard revenues are dependent on transaction volumes from consumer and corporate spending to generate interchange fees. An economic downturn could negatively affect the amount of such fee income. Our banking services group is affected by corporate and consumer demand for debt securities which can be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed our estimates, an increase to the amount of expense provided related to the allowance for loans would reduce income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage credit risk. Changes in interest rates could affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our net income is based on the difference between interest earned on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, such as the Federal 11 Table of Contents Reserve Bank. Changes in interest rates greatly affect the amount of income earned and the amount of interest paid. Changes in interest rates also affect loan demand, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase and sale of investment bonds and the generation and retention of customer deposits. A rapid increase in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of differences in maturities of assets and liabilities. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage interest rate risk. We are exposed to operational risk. Operational risk could adversely affect our profitability. Operational risk includes reputation risk, legal and compliance risk, risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders and transaction processing and system errors. We rely on the ability of our employees and systems to properly process a high number of transactions involving large sums of money. In the event of a breakdown in internal control systems, inappropriate access and improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action or incur damage to our reputation. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage operational risk. We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition to the challenge of competing against local, regional and national banks in attracting and retaining customers, our competitors also include brokers, mortgage bankers, mutual fund sponsors, securities dealers, investment advisors and specialty finance and insurance companies. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices on products and services or increasing rates paid on deposits. The shift from paper-based to electronic-based payment business may be difficult and negatively affect earnings. In today’s payment environment, checks continue to be the payment of choice; however, checks as a percent of the total payment volume are declining and the payment volume is shifting to electronic alternatives. Check products are serviced regionally due to the physical constraints of the paper document; however, electronic documents are not bound by the same constraints, thus opening the geographic markets to all providers of electronic services. To address this shift, new systems are being developed and marketed which involve significant software and hardware costs. It is anticipated that we will encounter new competition, and any competitor that attracts the payments business of our existing customers will compete strongly for the remainder of such customers’ banking business. We are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern most aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations, and in particular banking, securities and tax laws, may change from time to time. Such changes may negatively impact our future results of operations and may also have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. Actions by regulatory agencies could cause us to devote significant time and resources to compliance and could lead to penalties and withdrawal of certain products or services offered in the market. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on the securities market and other external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity affects our ability to meet our financial commitments. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to increase deposits or obtain additional funds through borrowing. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the general financial services industry could impair our ability to raise funding. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to sell assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets on a timely basis, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely 12 Table of Contents affect our results of operations. Our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Liquidity Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a discussion of how we monitor and manage liquidity risk. Inability to hire or retain qualified employees could adversely affect our performance. Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. Employee compensation is our greatest expense. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become unreasonably expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards affecting the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes are not within our control and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 