ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions and changes in regulations and the local, regional and national economic environment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” ; sections. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm in their audit report for fiscal year 2009 has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. While management believes we have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern, continued operations may depend on our ability to comply with the terms of an informal agreement entered into with the bank regulatory agencies on July 2, 2009 and the financing or other capital required to do so may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. Regulatory restrictions could severely limit future expansion plans. Applications for the establishment of new branches and the acquisition of existing banks require prior state and federal bank regulatory approvals. Further, we are subject to the review of the FDIC under the Statement of Policy on the Acquisition of Failed Insured Depository Institutions if we plan to acquire a failed depository institution. Generally, banks subject to a Memorandum of Understanding or formal enforcement action experience difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals to add branches or engage in business combinations. The Bank’s ability to implement any expansion plans would currently be restricted by the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding requiring any transactions that would materially change the composition of its balance sheet to be approved by the FDIC. Such transactions include any transaction or transactions that would increase the Bank’s total assets by 5% or more or that would significantly change the Bank’s funding resources. Until we regain well capitalized status and have our Memorandum of Understanding or any applicable regulatory enforcement actions lifted, our regulators will likely prevent or significantly restrict any expansion plans. Limitations on our ability to accept or roll over brokered deposits (including CDARs) could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations and a lack of liquidity could jeopardize our financial condition. As a result of the Bank’s regulatory capital position declining from well capitalized prior to September 30, 2009 to adequately capitalized at December 31, 2009, we are not allowed by law to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits (including deposits through the CDARs program) unless we are granted a waiver by the FDIC. Even though CDARs deposits are from local customers and are not originated by deposit brokers, the FDIC considers them to be brokered deposits. Additionally, we are limited in the rates we may pay on any deposits. As of December 31, 2009, we had $95.0 million of brokered deposits consisting of $46.8 million of reciprocal CDARs deposits and $48.2 million of traditional brokered and one-way CDARs deposits representing approximately 6.9% of our total deposits. $59.8 million of CDARs deposits and $21.2 million of traditional brokered deposits mature within the next twelve months. An inability to roll over or raise funds through CDARs deposits or brokered deposits could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us or the Bank should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us , such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the deterioration in credit markets. On January 7, 2010, the FHLB notified the Bank that the credit availability has been rescinded and the rollover of existing advances outstanding is limited to twelve months or less. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had an unsecured overnight federal funds purchased accommodation up to a maximum of $25.0 million from its correspondent bank. On February 17, 2010, the Bank was notified that the maximum amount of the accommodation was changed to $7.5 million and a secured repurchase agreement was entered into with a maximum accommodation of $24.4 million. 10 We are not paying dividends on our preferred stock or common stock and are deferring distributions on our trust preferred securities, and we are restricted in otherwise paying cash dividends on our common stock. The failure to resume paying dividends on our preferred stock and trust preferred securities may adversely affect us. We historically paid cash dividends before we began making quarterly 1% stock dividends in lieu of cash dividend payments on our common stock from the second quarter of 2008 through the third quarter of 2009. During the third quarter of 2009, we began deferring dividend payments on our trust preferred securities and our preferred stock pursuant to the adoption of a board resolution requiring 30 day advance notice to and written approval from the Federal Reserve Bank prior to making any dividend payments. There is no assurance that we will receive approval to resume paying cash dividends. Even if allowed to resume paying dividends again by the Federal Reserve, future payment of cash dividends on our common stock, if any, will be subject to the prior payment of all unpaid dividends and deferred distributions on our Series A Preferred St ock and trust preferred securities. Further, we need prior Treasury approval to increase our quarterly cash dividends above $0.0589 per common share through the earliest of December 5, 2011, the date we redeem all shares of Series A Preferred Stock or the Treasury has transferred all shares of Series A Preferred Stock to third parties. All dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and are dependent upon our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, regulatory capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Further, dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock and distributions on our trust preferred securities are cumulative and therefore unpaid dividends and distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent dividend payment date. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of our company, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series A Preferred Stock the liquidation amount plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends. If we miss six quarterly dividend payments, whether or not consecutive, the Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. We cannot pay dividends on our outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock until we have pai d in full all deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities, which will require prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009 and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. The FDIC collected a prepayment of insurance pr emiums for 2010, 2011 and 2012 plus the fourth quarter 2009’s premium in December 2009. The prepayment was $10.9 million. We also participate in the FDIC’s TLG for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee paid the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points, through December 31, 2009, on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC insurance. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the annual assessment will increase to a range of 15 to 25 basis points. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These changes will cause the premiums and TLG assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense in 2010 and for the foreseeable future. The TLG is scheduled to end June 30, 2010. Recent developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global capital markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Developments in the last two years in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general, with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in the early part of 2010 and beyond. Loan portfolio performance has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of collateral. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or stat e laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact us by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance 11 Deterioration in local economic and housing markets has led to loan losses and reduced earnings and could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings. For the past two years, there has been a dramatic decrease in housing and real estate values in Florida, coupled with a significant increase in the rate of unemployment. These trends have contributed to an increase in the Bank’s non-performing loans and reduced asset quality. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s non performing loans were approximately $72.8 million, or 6.09% of the loan portfolio. Nonperforming assets were approximately $97.4 million as of this same date, or 5.71% of total assets. In addition, we had approximately $29.7 million in accruing loans that were between 30 and 89 days delinquent at December 31, 2009. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, this may lead to additional valuation adjustments on the Bank’s loan portfolios and real esta te owned as the Bank continues to reassess the market value of its loan portfolios, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Florida, the decline in the local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral and could continue to do so for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2009, approximately 89% of the Bank’s loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. Consequently, a continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may continue to incur additional losses relating to non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then-fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. Loan Portfolio includes commercial and real estate loans that have higher risks. The Bank’s commercial, commercial real estate and construction and vacant land loans at December 31, 2009, were $69.2 million, $694.3 million and $97.4 million, respectively, or 6%, 58% and 8% of total loans. Commercial, commercial real estate and construction and vacant land loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by the Bank’s customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, the Bank may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Bank knew of, or was responsible for, the contamination. During 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies released guidance on “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending” (the “Guidance”). The Guidance defines commercial real estate loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with r eal estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when commercial real estate loan concentrations exceed either: • total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank’s total capital; or • total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank’s total capital. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation or resale of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Bank may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. 12 The Bank is required to maintain elevated capital ratios for the foreseeable future, but that additional capital may not be available. The Bank is subject to capital-based regulatory requirements which place depository institutions into one of the following five categories based upon their capital levels and other supervisory criteria: (i) well capitalized; (ii) adequately capitalized; (iii) undercapitalized; (iv) significantly undercapitalized; and (v) critically undercapitalized. At December 31, 2009, the Bank met the prompt corrective action capital requirements of an “adequately capitalized” depository institution. On July 2, 2009, TIB Bank entered into a Memorandum of Understanding, which is an informal agreement, with Bank regulatory agencies that it would move in good faith to increase its Tier 1 leverage capital ratio to not less than 8% and its total risk-based capital ratio to not less than 12% by December 31, 2009 and main tain these higher ratios for as long as this agreement is in effect. At December 31, 2009, TIB Bank’s Tier 1 leverage capital ratio and its total risk-based capital ratio were 4.8% and 8.1%, respectively. The Bank’s ability to meet its capital requirements on a continuing basis in the future will be dependent upon a number of factors, including its ability to raise additional capital, its results of operations, its level of nonperforming assets, its interest rate risk, future economic conditions (including changes in market interest rates), and future changes in regulatory and accounting policies and capital requirements. A combination of circumstances, such as the Bank’s continued growth and/or a reduction of its capital due to losses from nonperforming assets or otherwise, could cause the Bank to become unable to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements. In that event, the FDIC could impose restrictions on the Bank’s operations, including limi ting its growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. While management believes we have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern, if we are unable to raise additional capital through other sources when needed, substantial doubt arises about our ability to continue as a going concern. If the Bank’s capital ratios remain below the levels established by the Memorandum of Understanding, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our regulatory capital levels have declined and may continue to do so. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated Tier 1 leverage capital ratio was 4.1%, our consolidated total risk based capital ratio was 8.1% and our consolidated Tier 1 risk based capital ratio was 5.7%. These ratios have caused the Company to be considered “adequately capitalized.” In addition, our subsidiary bank is considered to be “adequately capitalized” as of December 31, 2009 with Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk based and Total risk based capital ratios of 4.8%, 6.8% and 8.1%, respectively. Continued losses will cause these capital ratios to fall further. Lower capital ratios will impair our ability to compete for loans and deposits, due to regulatory restrictions and public perception. A portion of our loans are to customers who have been adversely affected by the homebuilding industry. Customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where the decrease in housing and real estate values are more pronounced. Consequently, the Bank is facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these customers are forced to default on their loans. The Bank does not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs relating to this segment of its loan portfolio may occur. Our indirect auto lending program has experienced significant charge-offs and losses in this portfolio beginning in 2007 and continuing through 2009. We may continue to experience significant losses in this portfolio. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers primarily located in Southwest Florida. We began this program in 2002 and as of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $50 million of indirect loans outstanding. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. While the vast majority of originations during 2009 were to prime borrowers, in prior years, we served customers over a broad range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates were reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, they involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of ind irect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, and changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are collateralized, they are collateralized by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. Due to the economic slowdown in Southwest Florida, through 2008 and 2009, we experienced significantly higher delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio. The majority of the higher credit risk loans have paid off, charged off or significantly paid down principal, and accordingly, delinquencies in recent months have declined. However, if the economy continues to contract, we may continue to experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions a nd judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. 13 Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. Over the past 36 months, each of these four factors have decreased. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenged, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have recently experienced economic contraction, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified markets and economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefi t from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We may face risks with respect future expansion or acquisitions. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to valuation risk, integration risk and management resources. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such c hanges could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our fi nancial condition and results of operations. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a less expensive and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas borrowed funds typically are higher cost. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and assets under management, and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, regulatory scrutiny, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no a ssurance this strategy will be successful. 14 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The TARP Capital Purchase Program and the ARRA impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The purchase agreement we entered into in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program required us to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the Treasury holds the equity issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, including any common stock issuable under the Warrant. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; • required clawbacks of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; • prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and • an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. The ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation while the Treasury holds equity issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program: • a prohibition on making any golden parachute payment to our five senior executive officers or any of our next five most highly compensated employees; • a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of our reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of our employees; and • a prohibition on the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation to our five highest paid executives except for long-term restricted stock with a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock. The Treasury released an interim final rule on TARP standards for compensation and corporate governance on June 10, 2009, which implemented and further expanded the limitations and restrictions imposed on executive compensation and corporate governance by the TARP Capital Purchase Program and ARRA. The rules apply to us as a recipient of funds under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The rules clarify prohibitions on bonus payments, provide guidance on the use of restricted stock units, expand restrictions on golden parachute payments, mandate enforcement of clawback provisions unless unreasonable to do so, outline the steps compensation committees must take when evaluating risks posed by compensation arrangements, and require the adoption and disclosure of a luxury expenditure policy, among other things. 160;New requirements under the rules include enhanced disclosure of perquisites and the use of compensation consultants, and a prohibition on tax gross-up payments. These provisions and any future rules issued by the Treasury could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. The fair value of our debt securities may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles we are required to write these securities down by the amount of credit loss or to their estimated fair value, depending upon the specific circumstances. As of December 31, 2009, the Company owns a collateralized debt security collateralized by trust preferred securities issued primarily by banks and several insurance companies with an original purchase price of $5.0 million. This security was rated high quality “AA” at the time of purchase, but at December 31, 2009, nationally recognized rating agencies rated this security as “B” and it is currently valued at $759,000. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the fair value of this an d other securities. If such decline is determined to be other than temporary, we will write them down through a charge to earnings. 15 A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock may result in an other than temporary impairment charge. We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or FHLB, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. As a FHLB member, we are required to own FHLB common stock, the amount of which increases with the level of our FHLB borrowings. Due to weak financial results, the FHLB has substantially reduced the payment of dividends. The FHLB has also suspended daily repurchases of FHLB common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of these shares. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock was $10.4 million as of December 31, 2009. Consequently, there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and w ind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Market conditions and other factors may affect the value of our common stock. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including: • conditions in the regional and national credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • market interest rates; • the market for similar securities; • government action or regulation; • general economic conditions or conditions in the financial markets; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility; • our past and future dividend practice; and • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects. Future sales of our common stock or other securities will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. We plan to issue additional common stock in the near future to meet our capital needs and regulatory requirements. We can issue stock without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the “Articles of Incorporation”). Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other preferred securities including securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, subject to limitations imposed by Nasdaq and the Federal Reserve. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common sto ck or convertible or exchangeable preferred securities by us in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable preferred securities will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or convertible or exchangeable preferred securities in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. We cannot guarantee whether such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain future financing, we may not have the capital and financial resources we require for our business or that are necessary to meet regulatory requirements. 16 The trading volume in our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The Nasdaq National Market during the 2009 was approximately 25,132 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009 and at the time of this filing, the Company did not meet the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select market and may be delisted if compliance is not regained prior to the expiration of the 180 day grace period. On January 4, 2010, we received a letter from NASDAQ that stated the Company’s common stock closed below the required minimum $1.00 per share bid price for the previous 30 consecutive business days. The letter also indicated that, in accordance with listing rules, we have a period of 180 calendar days, until July 6, 2010, to regain compliance with this requirement. If at any time before July 6, 2010, the bid price of our common stock closes with a bid price of $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will notify us that we have regained compliance. If we are unable to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing rules, our ability to raise additional capital may be materially impaired. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $33.0 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junio r subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. As discussed above, pursuant to the board resolution adopted on October 5, 2009, we began deferring interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures in October 2009. The Preferred Shares, the Warrant and other potential issuances of equity securities may impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on the Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. In addition, we may issue and sell additional shares of preferred stock or common stock in the future, and such future issuances of equity could further impact the earnings per share available to our existing shareholders. Our earnings per share could also be diluted by the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant currently held by the Treasury. As of December 31, 2009, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant would represent approximately 6.9% of our outstanding common shares. This percentage includes the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in our total outstanding shares. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may have different interests from, and vote their shares in a manner deemed adverse to, our common shareholders. We notified the Treasury that we would begin deferring preferred dividends beginning in November 2009. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive) the Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid; otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2 / 3 % of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for: • any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; • any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or • consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock could block the foregoing transaction, even where considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, holders of our common stock. In addition, the shares of common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of the Warrant will enjoy voting rights identical to those of our other outstanding shares of common stock. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote the shares of common stock it would receive upon any exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or any of the shares of common stock it acquires upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this limitation. 17 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any written comments during 2009 from the Commission staff regarding our periodic and current reports under the Act that remain unresolved from any prior period. 