ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we do not successfully expand our restaurant operations, our growth rate and results of operations would be adversely affected. A critical factor in our future success is our ability to expand our restaurant operations successfully, which will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants on schedule and in a profitable manner. We anticipate that our new restaurants will generally take three to four months or longer to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, the need to hire and train sufficient management and restaurant personnel and other factors. We cannot assure you that any restaurant we open will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. If we are unable to open and operate new restaurants successfully, our growth rate and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our ability to open new restaurants on schedule in accordance with our projected growth rate may be adversely affected by delays or problems associated with securing suitable restaurant locations and leases and by other factors, some of which are beyond our control and the timing of which is difficult to forecast accurately. In order to achieve our projected rate of new restaurant growth, we must identify suitable restaurant locations and successfully negotiate and finalize the terms of restaurant leases at a number of these locations. Due in part to the unique nature of each proposed restaurant location, we cannot predict the timing or ultimate success of our site selection process or these lease negotiations. Delays encountered in negotiating, or our inability to finalize to our satisfaction, the terms of a restaurant lease may delay our actual rate of new restaurant growth and cause a significant variance from our projected growth rate. In addition, our scheduled rate of new restaurant openings may be adversely affected by other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development; • our ability to compete successfully for suitable restaurant locations; • the availability of adequate financing; • the timing of delivery of leased premises from our landlords so we can commence our build-out construction activities; • construction and development costs; • any labor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors; • any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; • our ability to hire, train and retain additional management and restaurant personnel; • our ability to secure governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses; • successfully promoting our new restaurants and competing in the markets in which our new restaurants are located; • our continued development and implementation of management information systems; • weather conditions or natural disasters; and • general economic conditions. 8 Table of Contents Our growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We plan to accelerate the pace of new restaurant openings by opening as many as 11 new restaurants in 2006. This expansion and our future growth will increase demands on our management team, restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls and information systems. These increased demands may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants and to manage our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our growth rate and operating results could be adversely affected. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the areas. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open new restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets, and there also may be little or no market awareness of our brands in these new markets. Due to these factors, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve sales comparable with our existing restaurants, if at all. In addition, we may incur costs related to the opening, operation and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in existing markets. You should not rely on past increases in our average restaurant revenues or our comparable restaurant sales as an indication of future operating results because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors historically have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our average restaurant revenues and/or comparable restaurant sales, including, among other factors: • our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; • our menu pricing strategy; • initial sales performance by new restaurants; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • changing consumer tastes or discretionary spending; • levels of competition in one or more of our markets; and • general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Additionally, our average restaurant revenues and comparable restaurant sales may not increase at rates achieved over recent periods. Changes in our average restaurant revenues and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly due to our limited number of existing restaurants and the expenses required to open new restaurants. We currently operate only 45 restaurants, nine of which opened during 2005. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. We estimate that the gross cash outlay to open a new BJ’s restaurant on leased ground currently ranges from $3.3 million to $3.8 million, inclusive of pre-opening expenses. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site, type of restaurant (brewery compared to brewhouse) and size of the restaurant and conditions in the local real estate and employment markets. The combination of our relatively small number of existing restaurants, the significant investment associated with each new restaurant and the average restaurant revenues of our new restaurants may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly. Moreover, poor operating results at any one restaurant or a delay or cancellation in the planned opening of a restaurant could adversely affect our business, making the investment risks related to any one location much greater than those associated with many other restaurants. Our inability to renew existing leases on favorable terms may adversely affect our results of operations. 43 of our 45 restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent, subject to regional cost-of-living increases, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. 9 Table of Contents Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, many leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. In addition, certain of our leases will expire without an automatic renewal or option to renew. No assurance can be given that such leases can be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. A significant number of our restaurants are concentrated in California, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic, regulatory, weather and other conditions in that state. As of January 3, 2006, 31 of our 45 restaurants were located in California. If our restaurants in California are adversely affected by changes in economic, regulatory and other conditions specific to California, our consolidated sales, financial condition and results of operations may decline. We are dependent upon consumer trends and upon high visitor rates at the sites where our restaurants are located, and any adverse change in such consumer trends or visitor rates could adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. Due to the nature of the restaurant industry, we are dependent upon consumer trends with respect to the public’s tastes, eating habits, public perception toward alcohol consumption and discretionary spending priorities, all of which can shift rapidly. We also are dependent upon high visitor rates at the sites surrounding our restaurants, which are primarily located in high-activity areas such as urban, retail, mixed-use and lifestyle centers, to attract guests to our restaurants. In general, such consumer trends and visitor rates are significantly affected by many factors, including national, regional or local economic conditions, changes in area demographics, public perception and attitudes, increases in regional competition, food, liquor and labor costs, traffic and shopping patterns, weather, natural disasters and the availability and relative cost of gasoline. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to such changing consumer preferences, tastes, eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. Any adverse change in any of the above factors and our inability to respond to such changes could cause our restaurant volumes to decline and adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. We compete on the basis of the taste, quality and price of food offered, guest service, brand name identification, beer quality and selection, attractiveness of the facilities, restaurant location, atmosphere and overall dining experience. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets to well-capitalized national restaurant companies. In addition, we compete with other restaurants and with retail establishments for real estate. Many of our competitors are well established in the upscale casual dining market segment and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry/produce, beer or alcoholic beverages generally could adversely affect the popularity of our restaurants, our revenues and our results of operations. The popularity of our restaurants, in general, and our menu offerings, in particular, are key factors to the success of our business. Incidents that occur at any of our restaurants may result in negative publicity, which could adversely affect our popularity. In addition, negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the restaurant, beef, seafood, poultry or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning the accumulation of carcinogens in seafood, e-coli, Hepatitis A and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. Our operations are susceptible to changes in food and supply costs, which could adversely affect our margins. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Our purchasing staff negotiates prices for all of our ingredients and supplies through either contracts (terms of one month up to one year) or commodity pricing formulas. Furthermore, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulations, could also cause our food and supply costs to increase. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food and supply costs by adjusting our purchasing practices. A failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, particularly our ingredients for our beer, we may experience short-term supply shortages, increased food and beverage costs and quality control problems. We currently depend on regional food distribution service companies to provide food and beverage products to all of our restaurants. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with these distributors. If these regional distributors, or other distributors or suppliers, cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. If these alternative suppliers do not meet our specifications, the consistency and quality of our food and beverage offerings, and thus our reputation, guest patronage, revenues and results of operations, could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could adversely affect our business. 10 Table of Contents Failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, trade secrets or other intellectual property could adversely affect our business. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of our brands, including the BJ’s Restaurants name in particular. Although BJ’s is a federally registered trademark, there are other restaurants using the name “BJ’s” throughout the United States and our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets or other intellectual property could be imitated or appropriated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our trademarks, service marks or trade dress or not operate in a certain geographic region or regions if our names are deemed confusingly similar to their prior trademarks, service marks or trade dress. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our employees or suppliers. Moreover, even with respect to the confidentiality and non-competition agreements we have, we cannot assure you that those agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Federal, state and local beer, liquor and food service regulations may have a significant adverse impact on our operations. We are required to operate in compliance with federal laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages administered by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of Treasury, as well as the laws and licensing requirements for alcoholic beverages of states and municipalities where our restaurants are or will be located. In addition, each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local authorities. Failure to comply with federal, state or local regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked and force us to cease the brewing or sale of alcoholic beverages, or both, at our restaurants. Additionally, state liquor laws may prevent or impede the expansion of our restaurants into certain markets. The liquor laws of certain states prevent us from selling at wholesale the beer brewed at our restaurants. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining such licenses, permits or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or increase the costs associated therewith. In addition, in certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we plan to open a restaurant, the number of liquor licenses available is limited, and licenses are traded on the open market. Liquor, beer and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our revenues; therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states where the number of licenses available is limited, the cost of a new license could be significant. Our restaurants and on-site breweries operate pursuant to exceptions to the “tied house laws,” which created the “three tier system” of liquor distribution. These tied house laws were adopted by all of the states after the repeal of prohibition and, generally, prohibit brewers from holding retail licenses and prohibit vertical integration in ownership and control among the three tiers. Brewery restaurants and brewpubs operate under an exception to these general prohibitions. Over the last 25 years, all of the states have adopted laws and regulations permitting brewery restaurants and brewpubs; however, the privileges and restrictions for brewpubs and brewery restaurants vary from state to state. Generally, our brewery restaurants are licensed as retailers with limited privileges to brew beer on the restaurant premises, and we do not have the same privileges as a microbrewery. Other restrictions imposed by law may prevent us from operating both brewery restaurants and non-brewery restaurants in some states. We are at risk that a state’s regulations concerning brewery restaurants or the interpretation of these regulations may change. Any such change may adversely impact our current model of brewing beer or supplying beer, or both, to our restaurants in that state. Other government laws and regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase our operating costs and restrict our growth. Our development and construction of additional restaurants must comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. More stringent and varied requirements of local government bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay construction of new restaurants and add to their cost in the future. In addition, difficulties or failure in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay, or result in our decision to cancel, the opening of new restaurants. In addition, various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and sales taxes. A number of factors could adversely affect our operating results and thus restrict our growth, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements and increased employee litigation, including claims relating to the Fair Labor Standards Act. 11 Table of Contents The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Non-compliance with this law and related laws enacted at the state or local level could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Limitations in our insurance coverage or rising insurance costs could adversely affect our business or financial condition in certain circumstances. We purchase comprehensive insurance coverage, including workers’ compensation, general liability, fire and extended coverage and property insurance. However, such insurance is subject to limitations, including deductibles, exclusions and maximum liabilities covered. Moreover, there are certain types of losses that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Such hazards may include earthquake, hurricane and flood losses and employee practices. If such a loss should occur, we would, to the extent that we are not covered for such loss by insurance, suffer a loss of the capital invested in, as well as anticipated profits and cash flow from, such damaged or destroyed properties. Punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance; thus, any awards of punitive damages as to which we may be liable could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business, to expand our operations or to develop additional restaurants. There is no assurance that any insurance coverage we maintain will be adequate, that we can continue to obtain and maintain such insurance at all or that the premium costs will not rise to an extent that they adversely affect us or our ability to economically obtain or maintain such insurance. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant general managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which would result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages or decreases in tip credits would increase our labor costs. We may be unable to increase our prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to our guests, in which case our profitability would be adversely affected. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we may be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from former, existing or prospective employees from time to time. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their guests. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under such “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, we may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. We also are subject to claims and disputes from landlords under our leases, which could lead to litigation or a threatened or actual lease termination. Litigation of any nature may be expensive to defend and may divert money and management’s attention from our operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely affect our business. Changes in our operating plans, acceleration of our expansion plans, lower than anticipated revenues, increased expenses or other events, including those described in this prospectus, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis in the event our cash flow is insufficient. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could adversely affect our growth and other plans as well as our financial condition. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including terrorist attacks, could cause consumer spending to decline, which would adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and military and governmental responses and the prospect of future wars, may result in negative changes to economic conditions. When economic conditions worsen, our guests may reduce their level of discretionary spending. We believe that a decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our guests choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Additionally, a decrease in discretionary spending could adversely affect our ability to price our menu items at favorable levels and decrease our profitability. 12 Table of Contents Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated variations in restaurant comparable sales or operating results; • changes in financial estimates by research analysts; • actual or anticipated changes in economic, political or market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; • changes in the consumer spending environment; • changes in the market valuations of other restaurant companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; and • a loss of a key member of management. In addition, we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will continue which could affect our stock price and the liquidity of any investment in our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would significantly harm our profitability and reputation. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 