Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should not construe the following cautionary statements as an exhaustive list. We cannot always predict what factors would cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements. All cautionary statements should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein might not occur. Forward-looking information may prove to be inaccurate. Some of the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that include terms such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “believe,” “plan,” or the like, as well as all statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations or have a material adverse effect upon our business include: Our revenues are generated from a limited number of clients. We rely on strategic, long-term relationships with large, global companies in targeted industries. As a result, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from relatively few clients. Additionally, client consolidations could result in a loss of clients. There can be no assurance that we will not become more dependent on a few significant clients, that we will be able to retain any of our largest clients, that the volumes or profit margins of our most significant programs will not be reduced, or that we would be able to replace such clients or programs with clients or programs that generate comparable revenue and profits. Our business may be affected by the success of our clients. In substantially all of our client programs, we generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our CSRs devote to our clients’ customers. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client program is dependent upon consumers’ interest in, and use of, the client’s products and/or services. There can be no assurance that our clients will continue to market products and services or develop new products and services that require them to use our services. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by the global economy. Our ability to enter into new multi-year contracts with large clients may be impacted by the general macroeconomic environment in which our clients and their customers operate. Weakening economic conditions, both global and local in nature, could result in increased sales cycles, delays in finalizing new business opportunities, slower growth, and reduced revenue from existing contracts. An economic downturn could negatively impact the financial condition of our clients, thereby increasing our risk of not receiving payment for services. There can be no assurance that weakening economic conditions or acts of terrorism throughout the world will not adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial position. Our business is subject to federal, state, and international regulations. Changes in U.S. federal, state, and international outsourcing requirements, restrictions, and disclosures may affect the sale of our services, including expansion of overseas operations. In the U.S., some of our services must comply with various federal and state requirements and regulations regarding the method and practices of placing outbound telephone calls. There can be no assurance that changes in these regulations and requirements, or new restrictive regulations and requirements, will not slow growth of these services or require us to incur substantial costs. 7 Table of Contents Our success is subject to the terms of our contracts. Most of our contracts do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenue, and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of a program. Our objective is to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However, our contracts generally enable the clients to terminate the contract or reduce customer interaction volumes. Our larger contracts generally require the client to pay a contractually agreed amount in the event of early termination. Additionally, certain contracts have performance-related bonus and/or penalty provisions, whereby the client may pay us a bonus or we may have to issue a credit based upon our ability to meet agreed upon performance metrics. There can be no assurance that we will be able to collect early termination fees, avoid performance penalties, or earn performance bonuses. Our business may be affected by our ability to obtain financing. From time to time, we may need to obtain debt or equity financing for capital expenditures, for payment of existing obligations, or to replenish cash reserves. Additionally, our existing debt agreements require us to comply with certain financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain debt or equity financing, or that any such financing would be on terms acceptable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the financial covenants under our debt agreements or, in the event of noncompliance, will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from the lenders. Our business may be affected by risks associated with international operations and expansion. One component of our growth strategy is continued international expansion. There are certain risks inherent with conducting international business including management of personnel overseas, longer payment cycles, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political and social instability, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, consolidated results of operations, or consolidated financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our international operations successfully. Our financial results may be impacted by our ability to find new locations. Our future success will be dependent upon being able to find cost effective locations in which to operate, both domestically and internationally. There is no assurance that we will be able to find cost effective locations, obtain favorable lease terms, and build or retrofit facilities in a timely or economic manner. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increases in business costs. Some of our larger contracts allow us to increase our service fees if, and to the extent, certain cost or price indices increase. The majority of our expenses are payroll and payroll-related, which includes healthcare costs. Over the past several years, healthcare costs have increased at a rate much greater than that of general cost or price indices. Increases in our service fees that are based upon increases in cost or price indices may not fully compensate us for increases in labor and other costs incurred in providing services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover increases in our costs through increased service fees. Our financial results depend on our ability to manage capacity utilization. Our profitability is influenced significantly by our CMC capacity utilization. We attempt to maximize utilization. However, because the majority of our business is inbound, we have significantly higher utilization during peak (weekday) periods than during off-peak (night and weekend) periods. We have experienced periods of idle capacity, particularly in our Multi-Client CMCs. Historically, we experience idle peak period capacity upon opening a new CMC or termination or completion of a large client program. On a quarterly basis, we assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our Centers. We may consolidate or close under-performing centers in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. In the event we close CMCs in the future, we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal CMC capacity utilization. Our business operates in a highly competitive market. The market in which we operate is fragmented and highly competitive and competition may intensify in the future. We compete with small firms offering specific applications, divisions of large entities, large independent firms, and, most significantly, the in-house operations of clients or potential clients. A number of competitors may develop greater capabilities and 8 Table of Contents resources than ours. Because our primary competitors are the in-house operations of existing or potential clients, our performance and growth could be adversely affected if our existing or potential clients decide to provide in-house Customer Management Services for customer care they currently outsource, or retain or increase their in-house customer care and product support capabilities. In addition, competitive pressures from current or future competitors also could cause our services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that additional competitors, some with greater resources than ours, will not enter our market. Our future success requires continued growth. Continued future growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: (i) initiate, develop, and maintain new client relationships; (ii) expand existing client programs; (iii) staff and equip suitable CMC facilities in a timely manner; and (iv) develop new solutions and enhance existing solutions we provide to our clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage expanded operations or maintain our profitability. Our financial results may be affected by rapidly changing technology. Our business is highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software capabilities. Our failure to maintain our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, or consolidated financial condition. Our continued growth and future profitability will be highly dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: (i) expand our existing solutions offerings; (ii) achieve cost efficiencies in our existing CMC operations; and (iii) introduce new solutions that leverage and respond to changing technological developments. Our ability to effectively market and implement software solutions developed by our Database Marketing and Consulting segment, including recoverability of capitalized costs based on estimated future cash flows, is a factor in our future success. There can be no assurance that technologies or services developed by our competitors will not render our products or services non-competitive or obsolete, that we can successfully develop and market any new services or products, that any such new services or products will be commercially successful, or that the integration of new technological capabilities will achieve their intended cost reductions. Our success depends on key personnel. Our success will depend upon our ability to recruit, hire, and retain experienced executive personnel who can successfully execute our business plans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire, motivate, and retain highly effective executive employees on economically feasible terms who can successfully execute our business plans. Our business is dependent on our ability to maintain our workforce. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified employees. Our industry is labor-intensive and experiences high employee turnover. A significant increase in the employee turnover rate could increase recruiting and training costs, thereby decreasing operating effectiveness and productivity. Also, if we obtain several significant new clients or implement several new, large-scale programs, we may need to recruit, hire, and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate. We may not be able to continue to hire, train, and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff new customer management programs. In addition, certain CMCs are located in geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, which could make it more difficult and costly to hire qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able maintain our workforce at necessary levels. Our success may be affected by our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and joint ventures. We may pursue strategic acquisitions of companies with services, technologies, industry specializations, or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. We may face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. We may pursue strategic alliances in the form of joint ventures and partnerships, which involve many of the same risks as acquisitions as well as additional risks associated with possible lack of control if we do not have a majority ownership position. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating acquisitions or joint ventures into our existing businesses, or that any acquisition or joint venture will enhance our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our business depends on uninterrupted service to clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, cyber attacks, telecommunications interruption or failure, natural disaster, and other similar events. Our operations may also be adversely affected by damage to our facilities resulting from fire, natural disaster, or other events. Additionally, severe weather can cause interruption in our ability to deliver our services, such as when our employees cannot attend work, resulting in a loss of revenue. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our locations (including our corporate headquarters building), through the reasons noted above or otherwise, our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages or face the loss of certain clients altogether. We maintain property and business interruption insurance. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur. Our financial results may experience variability. We experience quarterly variations in operating results because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, we make decisions regarding staffing levels, investments, and other operating expenditures based on our revenue forecasts. If our revenue is below expectations in any given quarter, our operating results for that quarter would likely be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that future quarterly or annual operating results will reflect past operating results. Our financial results may be impacted by foreign currency exchange risk. We serve an increasing number of our U.S. clients from CMCs in Argentina, Canada, India, Mexico, and the Philippines. Contracts with these clients are typically priced in U.S. dollars while the costs incurred to operate these CMCs are denominated in the foreign currency of the country from which the clients are served, representing a foreign currency exchange risk to us. Although we enter into financial hedge instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates, we do not hedge 100% of these risks. If the U.S. dollar weakens, the operating income of these CMCs, once translated into U.S. dollars, decreases in comparison to prior years to the extent we have not hedged 100%. If the U.S. dollar was to materially weaken, our consolidated financial results may be adversely impacted. While our hedging strategy effectively offset a portion of these foreign currency changes during 2005, there can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully partially hedge this foreign currency exchange risk or that the U.S. dollar will not materially weaken. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by our Database Marketing and Consulting segment. Prior to 2005, our Database Marketing and Consulting segment had historically experienced high levels of profitability. During 2005, the segment reported an operating loss. We have plans to return this segment to profitability. A part of our plan provided for entering into a new agreement with Ford for 2006 wherein we would provide services to Ford’s automotive dealerships on a preferred, not on an exclusive basis as was the previous agreement, in return for pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing our plans to return this segment to prior levels of profitability. We have approximately $13 million of goodwill for this segment whose ultimate recoverability is dependent upon the profitability of this segment. Our consolidated financial results and consolidated financial position, including our ability to obtain financing, may be adversely impacted if we are unable to return that segment to previous profitability levels. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 