ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Information provided by the Company or its spokespersons, including information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may from time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning projected financial performance, market and industry sector growth, product development and commercialization or other aspects of future operations. Such statements will be based on the assumptions and expectations of the Company’s management at the time such statements are made. The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Adverse Conditions in the Global Economy and Disruption in Financial Markets. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. While currently these conditions have not impaired the Company’s ability to access credit markets and finance operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. The Company is impacted by these economic developments, both domestically and globally, in that the current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of its customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and could result in a decrease in orders for the Company’s products and services. These economic conditions may negatively impact the Company as some of its customers defer purchasing decisions, thereby lengthening the Company’s sales cycles. In addition, certain of the Company’s customers’ budgets may be constrained and they may be unable to purchase our products at the same level. The Company’s customers’ ability to pay for the Company’s products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in the Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. The Company is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Should these economic conditions result in the Company not meeting its revenue growth objectives, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Decline in Customers’ Business. The Company’s sales are based significantly on end user demand for products in key industrial sectors. Many of these sectors periodically experience economic declines, which may be exacerbated by other economic factors, including the current global economic disruptions. These factors may adversely affect the Company’s business by extending sales cycles and reducing revenue. These economic factors may cause the Company’s customers to reduce the size of their workforce or cut back on operations which may lead to a reduction in license renewals or ongoing maintenance contracts with the Company. The Company’s customers may also request discounts or extended payment terms on new products or seek to extend payment terms on existing contracts, all of which may cause fluctuations in the Company’s future operating results. The Company may not be able to adjust its operating expenses to offset such fluctuations because a substantial portion of the Company’s operating expenses is related to personnel, facilities and marketing programs. The level of personnel and related expenses may not be able to be adjusted quickly enough and is based, in significant part, on the Company’s expectation for future revenue. Risks Associated with International Activities. A majority of the Company’s business comes from outside the United States and the Company has customers that supply a wide spectrum of goods and services in virtually all of the world’s major economic regions. As the Company continues to expand its direct sales presence in international regions, the portion of its revenue, expenses, cash, accounts receivable and payment obligations denominated in foreign currencies continues to increase. The Company’s revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the U.S. Dollar weakens. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates from time to time may affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the event that there are economic declines in countries in which the Company conducts transactions, the resulting changes in currency exchange rates, may from time to time affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is 11 Table of Contents most impacted by movements in and among the British Pound, Euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Indian Rupee, Swedish Krona, Chinese Renminbi, Korean Won, Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. The Company seeks to reduce these risks primarily through its normal operating and treasury activities, but there can be no assurances it will be successful in reducing these risks. In addition, the Company’s new subsidiary, Ansoft, derives a significant portion of its total revenue from sales in Asia, and Ansoft accounts for approximately 20% of the Company’s total business. Prior to acquiring Ansoft, the Company had less exposure to Asia. If Asian economies, and the Company’s new Asia-based clients, experience downturns in performance, the results of operations of Ansoft may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse affect on the Company’s combined business, results of operation and cash flows. The acquisition has also significantly increased the Company’s exposure to Asian currencies and exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates in Asian nations from which a significant portion of Ansoft’s revenue is derived may affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks inherent in the Company’s international business activities include imposition of government controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, products and services, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every foreign country in which the Company sells its products and services. The Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Stock Market and Stock Price Volatility. Market prices for securities of software companies have generally been volatile. In particular, the market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations as a result of factors affecting the Company, the software industry or the securities markets in general. Such factors include, but are not limited to, declines in trading price that may be triggered by the Company’s failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In light of current economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the market for securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market has seen significant increases in price and volume volatility, in many cases unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. The price of the Company’s common stock has decreased approximately 32.7% from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. The Company cannot provide assurance that in such circumstances the trading price of the Company’s common stock will recover or that it will not experience a further decline. Moreover, the trading price could be subject to additional fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in the Company’s operating results, material announcements made by the Company or its competitors, conditions in the financial markets or the software industry generally or other events and factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Rapidly Changing Technology; New Products; Risk of Product Defects. The Company operates in an industry generally characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions that can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. A major factor in the Company’s future success will be its ability to anticipate technological changes and to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, enhancements to its existing products, products acquired in acquisitions and new products to meet those changes including in particular the upcoming release of ANSYS 12.0. If the Company is unable to introduce new products and to respond quickly to industry changes, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The introduction and marketing of new or enhanced products require the Company to manage the transition from existing products in order to minimize disruption in customer purchasing patterns. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements, that its new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that it will successfully manage the transition from existing products. Software products as complex as those 12 Table of Contents offered by the Company may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released, and the likelihood of errors is increased as a result of the Company’s commitment to accelerating the frequency of its product releases. There can be no assurance that errors will not be found in any new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. Certain of these products require a higher level of sales and support expertise. The ability of the Company’s sales channel, particularly the indirect channel, to obtain this expertise and to sell the new product offerings effectively could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales in future periods. In particular, the Company intends to release ANSYS 12.0 software in 2009, and expects it to be a significant driver of the Company’s future revenue. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in marketing the ANSYS 12.0 software or that these products will be accepted by the marketplace. If the release of ANSYS 12.0 software is not as successful as management currently anticipates, if the product contains undetected errors or failures upon release, if the Company experiences delays in the release or if the Company experiences difficulties in providing sales and support expertise for the suite, the Company may experience a loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to the Company’s reputation or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Dependence on Channel Partners. The Company continues to distribute a meaningful portion of its products through its global network of independent, regional channel partners. The channel partners sell the Company’s software products to new and existing customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer consulting services and provide the first line of technical support. Consequently, in certain geographies, the Company is highly dependent upon the efforts of the channel partners. Difficulties in ongoing relationships with channel partners, such as failure to meet performance criteria or to promote the Company’s products as aggressively as the Company expects, and differences in the handling of customer relationships could adversely affect the Company’s performance. Additionally, the loss of any major channel partner for any reason, including a channel partner’s decision to sell competing products rather than the Company’s products, could have a material, adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the Company’s future success will depend substantially on the ability and willingness of its channel partners to continue to dedicate the resources necessary to promote the Company’s portfolio of products and to support a larger installed base of the Company’s products. If the channel partners are unable or unwilling to do so, the Company may be unable to sustain revenue growth. During times of significant fluctuations in world currencies, certain channel partners may have solvency issues to the extent that effective hedge transactions are not employed or there is not sufficient working capital. In particular, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, certain channel partners who pay the Company in U.S. Dollars may have trouble paying the Company on time or may have trouble distributing the Company’s products due to the impact of the currency exchange fluctuation on such channel partner’s cash flows. This may impact the Company’s ability to distribute its products into certain regions and markets which may have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Competition. The Company continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company’s current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income. Dependence on Senior Management and Key Technical Personnel. The Company’s success depends upon the continued services of the Company’s senior executives, key technical employees and other employees. Each of the Company’s executive officers, key technical personnel and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with the Company at any time. The loss of any of the Company’s senior executives might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business 13 Table of Contents and customer relationships. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of the Company’s products, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering and development personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Dependence on Proprietary Technology. The Company’s success is highly dependent upon its proprietary technology. The Company generally relies on contracts and the laws of copyright and trade secrets to protect its technology. The Company maintains a trade secrets program, enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees and channel partners, and limits access to and distribution of its software, documentation and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology by third parties, or that third parties will not be able to develop similar technology independently. Although the Company is not aware that any of its technology infringes upon the rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert technology infringement claims against the Company or that, if asserted, such claims will not prevail. Reliance on Perpetual Licenses. Although the Company has historically maintained stable recurring revenue from the sale of software lease licenses, software maintenance subscriptions and third party royalties, it also has relied on sales of perpetual licenses that involve payment of a single, up-front fee and that are more typical in the computer software industry. Additionally, the acquisition of Ansoft has resulted in an increase in the Company’s perpetual license revenue as compared to its total revenue. While revenue generated from software lease licenses, software maintenance subscriptions and third party royalties currently represents a portion of the Company’s revenue, to the extent that perpetual license revenue continues to represent a significant percentage of total revenue, the Company’s revenue in any period will depend increasingly on sales completed during that period. Risks Associated with Acquisitions. Historically, the Company has consummated acquisitions in order to support the Company’s long-term strategic direction, provide greater scale to increase its investments in research and development to accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products and supply new products and services, expand its customer base or enhance its distribution channels, including the 2006 acquisition of Fluent and the 2008 acquisition of Ansoft. In the future, the Company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, the Company may not be able to complete the business combination on commercially acceptable terms. The process of exploring and pursuing acquisition opportunities may result in devotion of significant management and financial resources. Even if the Company is able to consummate acquisitions that it believes will be successful, such transactions present many risks. Significant risks to such acquisitions include, among others: failing to achieve anticipated synergies and revenue increases; difficulty incorporating and integrating the acquired technologies or products with the Company’s existing product lines; coordinating, establishing or expanding sales, distribution and marketing functions, as necessary; disruption of the Company’s ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention to transition or integration issues; unanticipated and unknown liabilities; the loss of key employees, customers, partners and channel partners of the Company or of the acquired company; and difficulties implementing and maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures over the systems, products and processes of the acquired company. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by our management and financial or industry analysts, or if others do not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do, there could be a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, for companies acquired, limited experience will exist for several quarters following the acquisition relating to how the acquired company’s sales pipelines will convert into sales or revenues and the conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different than the historical conversion rate. Because a substantial portion of the Company’s software license revenue is completed in the latter part of a quarter, and its cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls may have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. A delay in a small number of large new software license transactions could cause the Company’s quarterly software license revenues to fall significantly short of its predictions. 14 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Ansoft Acquisition. On July 31, 2008, the Company completed its acquisition of Ansoft for a total purchase price of approximately $823.9 million. The Company used a combination of existing cash and proceeds from a $355.0 million unsecured senior term loan credit facility to fund the transaction. While the acquisition of Ansoft is expected to increase operational efficiency, lower design and engineering costs for customers, and accelerate development and delivery of new innovative products to the marketplace, the Company will need to meet significant challenges to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the acquisition. These significant challenges include, among others, integrating sales and business development operations while retaining existing customers of each company and developing new products and services that utilize the technologies and resources of both companies. The accomplishment of these post-acquisition objectives will involve considerable risks, including, among others, the potential disruption of each company’s ongoing business and operations and distraction of their respective management teams. Moreover, there may be significant challenges in incorporating acquired technology and intellectual property into the Company’s products and services. If the Company does not succeed in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition, its operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company continues to believe that the acquisition of Ansoft will be accretive within the first year following the acquisition. The Company’s ability to realize this goal will depend on meeting many of the challenges outlined above. In the event that Ansoft is not accretive within the first year following the acquisition, or to the extent anticipated by our management and financial or industry analysts, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and reputation. Disruption of Operations or Infrastructure Failures. A significant portion of the Company’s software development personnel, source code and computer equipment is located at operating facilities in the United States, Canada, India and throughout Europe. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unforeseen catastrophe at any of these facilities could cause interruptions in the Company’s operations, services and product development activities. Additionally, if the Company experiences problems that impair its business infrastructure, such as a computer virus, telephone system failure or an intentional disruption of its information technology systems by a third party, these interruptions could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the ability to meet financial reporting timelines. Further, because the Company’s sales are not generally linear during any quarterly period, the potential adverse effects resulting from any of the events described above or any other disruption of the Company’s business could be accentuated if it occurs close to the end of a fiscal quarter. Indebtedness Incurred in Connection with the Acquisition of Ansoft. In partial consideration for the Company’s 2008 acquisition of Ansoft, the Company incurred long-term debt from committed bank financing of approximately $355.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, remaining outstanding borrowings totaled $279.0 million. The incurrence of indebtedness, among other things, could make it difficult for the Company to obtain any necessary future financing and make the Company more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in its business. If the Company incurs new indebtedness in the future, the related risks that it now faces could intensify. Whether the Company is able to make required payments on its outstanding indebtedness and to satisfy any other future debt obligations will depend on its future operating performance and its ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. Sales Forecasts. The Company makes many operational and strategic decisions based upon short- and long-term sales forecasts. The Company’s sales personnel continually monitor the status of all proposals, including the estimated closing date and the value of the sale, in order to forecast quarterly sales. These forecasts are subject to significant estimation and are impacted by many external factors, including global economic conditions and the performance of its customers. A variation in actual sales activity from that forecasted could cause the Company to plan or to budget incorrectly and, therefore, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s management team forecasts macroeconomic trends and developments and integrates them through long-range planning into budgets, research and development strategies 15 Table of Contents and a wide variety of general management duties. The current global economic conditions, and the effect those conditions and the related disruptions in global credit markets have on the Company’s customers, may have a significant impact on the accuracy of the Company’s sales forecasts. These conditions may increase the likelihood or the magnitude of variations between actual sales activity and the Company’s sales forecasts, and, as a result, the Company’s performance may be hindered because of a failure to properly match corporate strategy with economic conditions. This in turn may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Income Tax Estimates. The Company makes significant estimates in determining its worldwide income tax provision. These estimates involve complex tax regulations in a number of jurisdictions across the Company’s global operations and are subject to many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. The final outcome of tax matters could be different than the estimates reflected in the historical income tax provision and related accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on income tax expense and net income in the period in which such determination is made. The amount of income tax paid by the Company is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. These audits often result in proposed assessments. The Company’s estimate for liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions is highly judgmental and actual future results may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s estimated tax liabilities, including estimates for uncertain tax positions, in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitations on potential assessments expire. As a result, the Company’s effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. The Company allocates a portion of its purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period the impairment is recorded. The Company has recorded significant deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets that are not deductible for tax purposes. These deferred tax liabilities are based on future statutory tax rates in the locations in which the intangible assets are recorded. Any future changes in statutory tax rates would be recorded as an adjustment to the deferred tax liabilities in the period the change is announced, and could have a material impact on the Company’s effective tax rate during that period. Periodic Reorganization of Sales Force. The Company relies heavily on its direct sales force. From time to time, the Company reorganizes and makes adjustments to its sales force in response to such factors as management changes, performance issues, market opportunities and other considerations. These changes may result in a temporary lack of sales production and may adversely impact revenue in future quarters. There can be no assurance that the Company will not restructure its sales force in future periods or that the transition issues associated with such a restructuring will not recur. Regulatory Compliance. Like all other public companies, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including those that require the Company to report on and receive an attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm regarding the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with these requirements causes the Company to incur additional expenses and causes management to divert time from the day-to-day operations of the Company. While the Company anticipates being able to fully comply with these requirements, if it is not able to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley reporting or attestation requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, the Company may be subject to sanction by the SEC or NASDAQ. Such sanctions could divert the attention of the Company’s management from implementing its business plan and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operation. As the Company’s stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market; the Company is subject to the ongoing financial and corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. While the Company anticipates being able to fully comply with these requirements, if it is not able to comply, the Company’s name may be published on NASDAQ’s daily Non-Compliant Companies list until NASDAQ determines that it has regained compliance 16 Table of Contents or the Company no longer trades on NASDAQ. If the Company were unable to return to compliance with the governance requirements of NASDAQ, the Company may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. Governmental Revenue Sources. The Company’s sales to the United States Government must comply with the regulations set forth in the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties being assessed against the Company or an order preventing the Company from making future sales to the United States Government. Further, the Company’s international activities must comply with the export control laws of the United States, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a variety of other laws and regulations of the United States and other countries in which the Company operates. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In certain circumstances the United States government, state and local governments and their respective agencies and certain foreign governments may have the right to terminate these engagements at any time, without cause. The United States, European Union and certain other government contracts, as well as our state and local level contracts, are subject to the approval of appropriations or funding authorizations. Certain of these contracts permit the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with Significant Sales to Existing Customers. A significant portion of the Company’s sales includes follow-on sales to existing customers that invest in the Company’s broad suite of engineering simulation software and services. If a significant number of current customers were to become dissatisfied with the Company’s products and services, or choose to license or utilize competitive offerings, the Company’s follow-on sales, and recurring lease and maintenance revenues, could be materially, adversely impacted, resulting in lower revenue, operating margins, net income and cash flows. Contingencies. The Company is involved in various investigations, claims and legal proceedings from time to time that arise in the ordinary course of its business activities, including alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, commercial disputes, employment matters, tax audits and other matters. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could in the future materially affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Changes in Existing Financial Accounting Standards or Taxation Rules. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practices could have a significant, adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or the manner in which the Company conducts its business. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2008 that remain unresolved. 