ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere by management from time to time. Factors relating to our revenues The volume of our license signings has been increasing, and we may not be able to sustain this increased volume of license signings unless we can provide sufficient high quality professional services, training, and maintenance resources to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our software. Our customers typically request professional services and training to assist them in implementing our products. Our customers also purchase maintenance on our products in almost all cases. As a result, an increase in the number of license signings is likely to increase demand for professional services, training, and maintenance relating to our products. Given that our volume of license signings has been increasing, we will need to provide our customers with more professional services, training, and maintenance to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our software. Accordingly, we have been hiring additional personnel in these areas and improving our “on-boarding” process to ramp up new personnel in a shorter period of time. We have also been increasingly enabling our partners and our customers through training and the creation of “centers of excellence” to create an expanded universe of people that are skilled in the implementation of our products. However, if we are unable to provide sufficient high quality professional services, training, or maintenance resources to our customers, our customers may not realize sufficient business value from our products to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. In addition, the growth required to meet the increased demand for our professional services could strain our ability to deliver our services engagements at desired levels of profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. We are increasingly entering into smaller initial licenses with new customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not successful in obtaining follow-on business from these customers. We have increasingly entered into small initial licenses with our new customers rather than selling large application licenses, to allow these new customers to realize business value from our software quickly and for a limited initial investment. We expect this trend to continue in the near future. Once a customer has realized this initial value, we work with the customer to identify opportunities for follow-on sales. However, we may not be successful in demonstrating this initial value to some customers, for reasons relating to the performance of our products, the quality of the services and support we provide for our products, or external reasons. For these customers, we may not obtain follow-on sales or the follow-on sales may be delayed, and our license revenue will be limited to the smaller initial sale. This could lower average transaction size and adversely affect our financial performance. Our professional services revenue is dependent to a significant extent on closing license transactions with new customers. We derive a substantial portion of our professional services revenue from implementation of software licensed by new customers. Increasingly, we are relying on business partners to provide the implementation services for our customers, thus reducing the amount of professional services revenue we derive relative to a given level of license revenue. Accordingly, it is imperative that we close more license transactions with new customers if we are to maintain or grow our services revenue. Factors relating to fluctuations in our financial results The timing of our license revenue is difficult to predict accurately, which may cause our quarterly operating results to vary considerably. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate significantly, in part because our revenue in any quarter is attributable to a relatively small number of transactions. Our decision to increasingly enter into term licenses with contract provisions that require the term license revenue to be recognized over the license term as payments become due or earlier if paid in advance may adversely affect our profitability in any 9 Table of Contents period due to sales commissions being paid at the time of signing and the corresponding revenue being recognized over time. The mix of perpetual license and term license signings in a quarter may cause a fluctuation in the timing of recognized license revenue, because we recognize revenue from term licenses over the term as payments become due. We plan selling and marketing expenses, product development, and other expenses based on anticipated future revenue. If revenue falls below expectations, financial performance is likely to be adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are required to change certain estimates, judgments, and positions relative to our income taxes. In the ordinary course of conducting a global business enterprise, there are many transactions and calculations undertaken whose ultimate tax outcome cannot be certain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of positions we have taken regarding valuation of deferred tax assets, transfer pricing for transactions with our subsidiaries, and potential challenges to nexus and tax credit estimates. We estimate our exposure to unfavorable outcomes related to these uncertainties and estimate the probability for such outcomes. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters or our current estimates regarding these matters will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, returns, and accruals. Such differences, or changes in estimates relating to potential differences, could have a material impact, unfavorable or favorable, on our income tax provisions, require us to change the recorded value of deferred tax assets, and adversely affect our financial results. We are investing heavily in sales and marketing and professional services in anticipation of a continued increase in license signings, and we may experience decreased profitability or losses if we are unsuccessful in increasing the value of license signings in the future. We have been increasing our investment in sales and marketing to meet increasing demand by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel. We anticipate that we will need to provide our customers with more professional services, training, and maintenance as a result of this increase in demand, and have been hiring additional personnel in these areas. These investments have resulted in increased fixed costs that do not vary with the level of revenue. If the increased demand for our products does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses as a result of these increased fixed costs. Factors relating to our products and markets We will need to develop new products, evolve existing ones, and adapt to technology change. Technical developments, customer requirements, programming languages, and industry standards change frequently in our markets. As a result, success in current markets and new markets will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, to develop and introduce new products that meet customer needs, keep pace with technology changes, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement, and testing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make necessary product development investments. We may experience difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or implementation of new or enhanced products. Inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner would adversely affect future financial performance. The market for our offerings is increasingly and intensely competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented. The market for BPM software and related implementation, consulting and training services is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We currently encounter significant competition from internal information systems departments of potential or existing customers that develop custom software. We also compete with companies that target the customer interaction and workflow markets, companies focused on business rules engines or enterprise application integration, “pure play” BPM companies and professional service organizations that develop custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services. Competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions are likely to increase. Many competitors have far greater resources and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new or emerging 10 Table of Contents technologies, programming languages or standards or to changes in customer requirements or preferences. Competitors may also be able to devote greater managerial and financial resources to develop, promote, and distribute products and provide related consulting and training services. Recently, larger companies such as IBM, Oracle and SAP have begun to acquire companies that provide BPM software, and we expect competition from larger companies to increase. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by us will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have historically sold to the financial services and healthcare markets, and rapid changes or consolidation in these markets could affect the level of demand for our products. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers in the financial services and healthcare markets, and sales to these markets are important for our future growth. Competitive pressures, industry consolidation, decreasing operating margins, regulatory changes and privacy concerns affect the financial condition of our customers and their willingness to buy. In addition, customers’ purchasing patterns in these industries for large technology projects are somewhat discretionary. The financial services market is undergoing intense domestic and international consolidation, and consolidation has been increasing in the healthcare market. Consolidation may interrupt normal buying behaviors and increase the volatility of our operating results. In recent years, several of our customers have been merged or consolidated. Future mergers or consolidations may cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect our future financial performance. All of these factors affect the level of demand for our products from customers in these industries, and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recent credit market turmoil may impact our sales to our financial services customers. Recently, many financial services institutions have been forced to record massive write-offs on their financial statements to reflect the reduced value of their portfolios of sub-prime mortgage loans and/or securities derived from these loans. Additionally, financial institutions that are in the business of mortgage lending have seen a dramatic reduction in the number of loan transactions. The reduction in loan transactions has also affected the overall amount of borrowing and liquidity in the market, thereby impacting other companies such as credit card issuers. All of this turmoil could impact the ability and willingness of our financial services customers to make investments in technology, which may delay or reduce the amount of purchases of our software and professional services by these customers. We rely on certain third-party relationships. We have a number of relationships with third parties that are significant to sales, marketing and support activities, and product development efforts. We rely on software and hardware vendors, large system integrators and technology consulting firms to provide marketing and sales opportunities for the direct sales force and to strengthen our products through the use of industry-standard tools and utilities. We also have relationships with third parties that distribute our products. There can be no assurance that these companies, most of which have significantly greater financial and marketing resources, will not develop or market products that compete with ours in the future or will not otherwise end or limit their relationships with us. We face risks from operations and customers based outside of the U.S. Sales to customers headquartered outside of the U.S. represented approximately 35% of our total revenue in 2007, 37% in 2006 and 34% in 2005. We, in part through our wholly-owned subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia, market products and render consulting and training services to customers based in Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, South Africa, Mexico, Australia, Hong Kong, and Singapore. We have established offices in Canada, Europe, and Australia. We believe that growth will necessitate expanded international operations, requiring a diversion of managerial attention and increased costs. We anticipate hiring additional personnel to accommodate international growth, and we may also enter into agreements with local distributors, representatives, or resellers. If we are unable to do one or more of these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in our foreign operations may be restricted, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Many of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, any appreciation of the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of those countries in which we sell our products may place us at a competitive disadvantage by effectively making our products more expensive as compared to those of our competitors. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, increased tariffs and other trade barriers, the costs of localizing products for local markets and complying with local business customs, longer accounts receivable patterns and difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, heightened risks of political and economic instability, the possibility of nationalization or expropriation of industries or properties, difficulties in managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences (including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”), increased accounting and internal control expenses, and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our foreign operations, and, consequentially, our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, our international sales may be denominated in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies depending on the customer and transaction. However, the operating expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent our international sales are also denominated in the foreign currency, our foreign currency exposure is largely offset. An increase in the value of foreign currencies, particularly the British pound and the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Factors relating to our internal operations and potential liabilities We depend on certain key personnel, and must be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The business is dependent on a number of key, highly skilled technical, managerial, consulting, sales, and marketing personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect financial performance. We do not have any significant key-man life insurance on any officers or employees and do not plan to obtain any. Our success will depend in large part on the ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. The number of potential employees who have the extensive knowledge of computer hardware and operating systems needed to develop, sell, and maintain our products is limited, and competition for their services is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may experience significant errors or security flaws in our product and services, and could face product liability and warranty claims as a result. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, or could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Our license agreements typically contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of product liability and warranty claims. There is a risk that a court might interpret these terms in a limited way or could hold part or all of these terms to be unenforceable. Also, there is a risk that these contract terms might not bind a party other than the direct customer. Furthermore, some of our licenses with our customers are governed by non-U.S. law, and there is a risk that foreign law might give us less or different protection. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, a product liability suit or action claiming a breach of warranty, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and our resources. We face risks related to intellectual property claims or appropriation of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality 12 Table of Contents agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have obtained patents from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating to the architecture of our systems. We cannot assure that such patents will not be invalidated or circumvented or that rights granted thereunder or the claims contained therein will provide us with competitive advantages. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties, these limitations often contain certain exclusions, and we cannot be assured that these limitations will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if these limitations are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our customers for these types of claims could be material in amount given the size of certain of our transactions. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 