Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from a single product, the Powerlink System, and any declines in the sale of this product will negatively impact our business. We have focused heavily on the development and commercialization of a single technology, the Powerlink System, because of limited resources. If we are unable to continue to achieve market acceptance of the Powerlink System and do not achieve positive cash flow from operations, we will be constrained in our ability to fund development and commercialization of improvements and other product lines. We have limited resources to invest in research and development and to grow our business and may need to raise additional funds in the future for these activities. We believe that our growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to develop new technologies for the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders and technology complementary to the Powerlink System Our existing resources may not allow us to conduct all of the research and development activities that we believe would be beneficial for our future growth. As a result, we may need to seek funds in the future to finance these activities. If we are unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all, we may not be able to increase our research and development activities and the growth of our business may be negatively impacted. Our success depends on the growth in the number of AAA patients treated with endovascular devices. Of the estimated 2.0 million people with AAA in the United States, about 200,000 new diagnoses are made each year. About 35,000 are treated with an endovascular device. Our success with our Powerlink System will depend on an increasing percentage of patients with AAA being diagnosed, and an increasing percentage of those diagnosed receiving endovascular, as opposed to open surgical procedures. Initiatives to increase screening for AAA are underway but are out of our control and such general screening programs may never gain wide acceptance. The failure to diagnose more patients with AAA, could negatively impact sales of the Powerlink System. Our success depends on convincing physicians to use the Powerlink System in more endovascular AAA procedures. We believe that physicians may have chosen to use our Powerlink System for AAA procedures that involved abnormal vasculatures, such as those with difficult neck anatomies, while using competitive products for more normal vasculatures. We believe physicians did not choose the Powerlink System for these more common endovascular AAA procedures primarily as result of the perception of the ease of use of competitive products versus the Powerlink System. However, with the introduction of our IntuiTrak delivery system, we believe that physicians 10 Table of Contents will be more willing to use the Powerlink System in a wider variety of endovascular AAA procedures. However, if we are unable to convince physicians of the ease of use of the Powerlink System compared to competitive products, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth and our business could be negatively impacted. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the United States represented 15% of our revenue in 2008. Through December 31, 2008, we have sold our products through distributors in the following countries outside of the United States: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and custom regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • economic instability; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; 11 Table of Contents • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. Any of these factors may adversely impact our operations. Our international sales are predominately in Europe. In Europe, healthcare regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If our products or processes infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties, the sale of our products may be challenged and we may have to defend costly and time-consuming infringement claims. We may need to engage in expensive and prolonged litigation to assert or defend any of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of rights claimed by other parties. With no certainty as to the outcome, litigation could be too expensive for us to pursue. Our failure to prevail in such litigation or our failure to pursue litigation could result in the loss of our rights that could hurt our business substantially. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, if at all. Our failure to obtain rights to intellectual property of third parties or the potential for intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, making or using products that use the disputed intellectual property; • obtain a license from the intellectual property owner to continue selling, making, licensing or using products, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign our products, processes or services; or • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products and may suffer severe financial harm. Whether or not an intellectual property claim is valid, the cost of responding to it, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, could harm our business. If third-party payors do not provide reimbursement for the use of the Powerlink System, our revenues may be negatively impacted. Our success in marketing the Powerlink System depends in large part on whether domestic and international government health administrative authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse customers for the cost of our product. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Further, many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. If sufficient reimbursement is not made available for the Powerlink System, or any other product that we may develop, in either the United States or internationally, the demand for our products will be adversely affected. Current challenges in the commercial and credit environment may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The global financial markets have recently experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations or enter into or maintain existing financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers, deterioration in our key financial ratios, maintenance of compliance with financial covenants in existing credit 12 Table of Contents agreements, or credit ratings, or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. While these conditions and the current economic downturn have not meaningfully impaired our ability to access credit markets or meaningfully adversely affected our operations to date, continuing volatility in the global financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to access the capital markets. Current or worsening economic conditions may also adversely affect the business of our customers, including their ability to pay for our products and services, and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively impact our stock price in the future. Our quarterly revenues and results of operations may fluctuate in the future due to, among others, the following reasons: • physician acceptance of the Powerlink System; • the conduct and results of clinical trials; • the timing and expense of obtaining future regulatory approvals; • fluctuations in our expenses associated with expanding our operations; • the introduction of new products by our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or in the pricing policies of our competitors or suppliers; and • changes in third-party payors’ reimbursement policies. Because of these and possibly other factors, it is likely that in some future period our operating results will not meet investor expectations or those of public market analysts. Any unanticipated change in revenues or operating results is likely to cause our stock price to fluctuate since such changes reflect new information available to investors and analysts. New information may cause investors and analysts to revalue our stock, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our stock. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to the Powerlink System. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products or our future products, or these products may not be accepted by physicians or the payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate vascular surgeons and patient needs; • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; • avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; • demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials; 13 Table of Contents • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements; • be fully FDA-compliant with marketing of new devices or modified products; • provide adequate training to potential users of our products; • receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and • develop an effective and FDA-compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize these products. We are currently conducting several clinical trials and will likely need to conduct additional clinical trials in the future in support of new product approvals. Clinical testing is expensive, typically takes many years and has an uncertain outcome. The initiation and completion of any of these studies may be prevented, delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol, force us to modify a previously approved protocol, or place a clinical study on hold; • patients do not enroll in, or enroll at the expected rate, or complete a clinical study; • patients or investigators do not comply with study protocols; • patients do not return for post-treatment follow-up at the expected rate; • patients experience serious or unexpected adverse side effects for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products such as the advanced stage of co-morbidities that may exist at the time of treatment, causing a clinical study to be put on hold; • sites participating in an ongoing clinical study may withdraw, requiring us to engage new sites; • difficulties or delays associated with bringing additional clinical sites on-line; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in our clinical studies, do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreement, clinical study protocol, good clinical practices, and other FDA and Institutional Review Board requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • regulatory inspections of our clinical studies require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical studies; • changes in U.S. federal, state, or foreign governmental statutes, regulations or policies; • interim results are inconclusive or unfavorable as to immediate and long-term safety or efficacy; or • the study design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive 14 Table of Contents results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new or improved products. Our products must comply with regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA and similar agencies in foreign countries. These requirements involve lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, an extensive FDA review process, and other costly and time-consuming procedures. It often takes several years to satisfy these requirements, depending on the complexity and novelty of the product. We also are subject to numerous additional licensing and regulatory requirements relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Some of the most important requirements we face include: • FDA approval process; • California Department of Health Services requirements; • ISO 9001:1994 and ENISO 13485:2003; and • European Union CE Mark requirements. Government regulation may impede our ability to conduct continuing clinical trials of Powerlink System enhancements and to manufacture the Powerlink System and other prospective products. Government regulation also could delay our marketing of new products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures on our activities. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may not approve any of our future products on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals could negatively impact our marketing of any proposed products and reduce our product revenues. Our products remain subject to strict regulatory controls on manufacturing, marketing and use. We may be forced to modify or recall our product after release in response to regulatory action or unanticipated difficulties encountered in general use. Any such action could have a material effect on the reputation of our products and on our business and financial position. Further, regulations may change, and any additional regulation could limit or restrict our ability to use any of our technologies, which could harm our business. We could also be subject to new federal, state or local regulations that could affect our research and development programs and harm our business in unforeseen ways. If this happens, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations, which will harm our results of operations. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in such promotion. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA for specific treatments. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. We train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be 15 Table of Contents covered by insurance. If we are deemed by FDA to have engaged in the promotion of any our products for off-label use, we could be subject to FDA prohibitions on the sale or marketing of our products or significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock to decline. If we fail to develop and maintain our direct sales force, our business could suffer. We have a nationally staffed direct sales force and we utilize a network of third-party distributors for sales outside of the United States. As we launch new products and increase our marketing efforts with respect to existing products, we will need to retain and develop our direct sales personnel to build upon their experience, tenure with our products, and their business relationships. There is significant competition for sales personnel experienced in relevant medical device sales. If we are unable to attract, motivate, develop, and retain qualified sales personnel and thereby maintain our sales force, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues. Our third-party distributors may not effectively distribute our products. We depend on medical device distributors and strategic relationships for the marketing and selling of our Powerlink System internationally. We depend on these distributors’ efforts to market our product, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors are complying all applicable laws regarding the sales of our products. If our distributors fail to market and sell our products effectively and in compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer substantially, or we may have to make significant additional expenditures or concessions to market our products. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or otherwise more attractive than any products that we may develop, our ability to generate revenue will be reduced or eliminated. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies. Many of the companies developing or marketing competing products are publicly traded or are divisions of publicly-traded companies, and these companies enjoy several competitive advantages, including: • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; • significantly greater name recognition; • established relationships with physicians, customers and third-party payors; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • established sales and marketing, and distribution networks; and • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for competing products more rapidly than us, and develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales, and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business. If our competitors are more successful than us in these matters, our business may be harmed. Our dependence upon key personnel to operate our business puts us at risk of a loss of expertise if key personnel were to leave us. 16 Table of Contents We depend upon the experience and expertise of our executive management team. The competition for executives, as well as for skilled product development and technical personnel, in the medical device industry is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit the personnel we need. If we are not able to attract and retain existing and additional highly qualified management, sales, regulatory, clinical and technical personnel, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. We may experience periods of rapid growth and expansion, which could place a significant strain on our limited personnel and other resources. In particular, the increase in our direct sales force requires significant management and other supporting resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. To achieve our revenue goals, we must successfully increase production output as required by customer demand. We may in the future experience difficulties in increasing production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance, component supply, and shortages of qualified personnel. These problems could result in delays in product availability and increases in expenses. Any such delay or increased expense could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. In order to manage our operations and growth we will need to continue to improve our operational and management controls, reporting and information technology systems, and financial internal control procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy and our operating results and business could suffer. We are required to maintain compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit facility which can restrict our ability to operate our business, and if we fail to comply with those covenants, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated or the terms of the credit facility may become more onerous. Our existing credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank contain negative covenants on the operation of our business and financial covenants, including requiring us to maintain a tangible net worth of $13.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, our tangible net worth was $13.7 million. If we are not able to maintain compliance with our financial covenants, certain terms of our credit facility and term loan will change including an increase in the interest rate and a limitation on the amounts available for borrowing under the credit facility based on eligible accounts receivable. Further, if we do not maintain a tangible net worth of at least $12.0 million through June 29, 2009 and $12.5 million thereafter, we will be in default under the credit facility. In addition, the credit facility contains restrictions on certain business activities, including: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends or make other distributions or payments on capital stock; • make investments; • incurring liens; and • merging or consolidating or otherwise combining with another company. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities, including acquisitions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default allowing the lender to accelerate the repayment of the indebtedness under the credit facility. 17 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and may be required to obtain additional funds. We had $7.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008. In addition, we had $3.0 million available to borrow under our revolving credit facility. We have had a history of operating losses, and although we expect to achieve positive cash flow from operations in the second quarter of 2009, we may not be able to do so. Our cash requirements in the future may be significantly different from our current estimates and depend on many factors, including: • the results of our commercialization efforts for the Powerlink System; • the need for additional capital to fund future development programs; • the costs involved in obtaining and enforcing patents or any litigation by third parties regarding intellectual property; • the establishment of high volume manufacturing and increased sales and marketing capabilities; and • our success in entering into collaborative relationships with other parties. To finance these activities, we may seek funds through borrowings or through additional rounds of financing, including private or public equity or debt offerings and collaborative arrangements with corporate partners. We may be unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all. During the recent economic crisis, it has been difficult for many companies, particularly small cap medical device companies, to obtain financing in the public markets or to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow additional funds or issue debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock, and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. We might have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, product candidates or products that we otherwise would not relinquish. If we do not obtain additional resources, our ability to capitalize on business opportunities will be limited, and the growth of our business will be harmed. We rely solely on an in-house process to manufacture our graft material for the Powerlink System, and any disruption in our ability to produce this material could delay or prevent us from producing the product for sale. Currently, we rely solely on an in-house manufacturing process to produce graft material, which is a primary component for the Powerlink System. Our reliance on a sole source exposes our operations to disruptions in supply caused by: • failure to comply with regulatory requirements; • fire, flood or earthquake, or other natural disaster; and • a supply interruption in the underlying raw material for the process. Although we retain a significant stock of the graft material, the occurrence of any of the above disruptions in supply or other unforeseen events that could cause a disruption in our process to manufacture graft material may cause us to halt or experience a disruption in manufacturing the Powerlink System. Because we do not have alternative suppliers, our sales and operating results would be harmed in the event of a disruption. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business may be negatively affected. The market for medical devices is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. It is possible that our patents or licenses may not withstand challenges made by others or protect our rights adequately. Our success depends in large part on our ability to secure effective patent protection for our products and processes in the United States and internationally. We have filed and intend to continue to file patent applications for various aspects of our technology. However, we face the risks that: • we may fail to secure necessary patents prior to or after obtaining regulatory clearances, thereby permitting competitors to market competing products; and • our already-granted patents may be re-examined, re-issued or invalidated. 18 Table of Contents We also own trade secrets and confidential information that we try to protect by entering into confidentiality agreements with other parties. However, the confidentiality agreements may not be honored or, if breached, we may not have sufficient remedies to protect our confidential information. Further, our competitors may independently learn our trade secrets or develop similar or superior technologies. To the extent that our consultants, key employees or others apply technological information to our projects that they develop independently or others develop, disputes may arise regarding the ownership of proprietary rights to such information, and such disputes may not be resolved in our favor. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business and commercial prospects likely will suffer. If we are unable to effectively manage our inventory held on consignment by our intended customers, we will not achieve our expected results. Our Powerlink System is sold on a consignment basis to certain hospitals which purchase our product as they use it. In these consignment locations, we do not have physical possession of our products. We therefore must rely on information from our customers as well as periodic inspections by our sales personnel to determine when our products have been used. Our efforts to strengthen our monitoring and management of consigned inventory may not be adequate to meaningfully reduce the risk of inventory loss. If we are not able to effectively manage appropriate consigned inventory levels, we may suffer inventory losses which will reduce our operating results. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. Manufacturing and marketing of our commercial products, and clinical testing of our products under development, may expose us to product liability claims. Although we have, and intend to maintain, product liability insurance, the coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate and one or more successful claims brought against us may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, adverse product liability actions could negatively affect the reputation and sale of our products, our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and may divert management’s attention from other matters. Our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes or other natural disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing, development and management activities at a single location in Irvine, California, near known earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, any future natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. The insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. The price of our stock may fluctuate unpredictably in response to factors unrelated to our operating performance. The stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to drop, as they have during the past year. In particular, the market price of securities of small medical device companies, like ours, has been very unpredictable and may vary in response to: • announcements by us or our competitors concerning technological innovations; • introductions of new products; • FDA and foreign regulatory actions; • developments or disputes relating to patents or proprietary rights; 19 Table of Contents • failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock; • changes in healthcare policy in the United States or other countries; and • general stock market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 85,000 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and inhibit your ability to receive a premium price for your shares. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our business, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of such shares without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our business and may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes for staggered terms of three years. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by our revolving credit facility, which contains restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender’s prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 