Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, in evaluating our company, our business and our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company Our limited operating history makes it difficult for investors to evaluate our business and the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by new companies. Our current business operations were founded in November 2004, and as a result, we have a limited operating history. This limited operating history and the unpredictability of our industry make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business and future operating results. An investor in our securities must consider the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. The risks and difficulties we face include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. 5 If we fail to open new Retail Cafés and expand our Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations we may not be able to achieve profitability. Our growth strategy requires us to open new Retail Cafés and expand our Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations through acquiring other companies or in greenfield locations. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · hiring, training and retention of qualified operating personnel; · identification and successful negotiation for the purchase of suitable acquisition targets; · identification and availability of suitable properties; · negotiation of favorable lease terms; · timely development of new Retail Café, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations; · the successful integration of the operations of acquired companies; · management of construction and development costs of Retail Café, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations; · competition in our markets; and · general economic conditions. Delays or failures in opening new Retail Cafés or in expanding our Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Further, any new Retail Café, Delivery/Casual Catering Services or Wholesale operation we open or acquire may not be able to obtain similar operating results to those of our existing operations. In order to support our future expansion and growth plans we may need additional financing, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We may need to raise additional funds to support our future expansion and growth plans. Our funding requirements may change as a result of many factors, including underestimates of budget items, unanticipated cash requirements, future product and service opportunities, and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may seek to raise additional financing through equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we could incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as collateral for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Debt financing would also be superior to the stockholders’ interests in bankruptcy or liquidation. 6 Our reliance on our suppliers and distributors subjects us to a number of risks, including possible delays or interruptions in supplies, diminished direct control over quality and a potential lack of adequate raw material capacity. We depend on our suppliers and distributors for the operation of our business. Any disruption in the supply of or degradation in the quality of the raw materials provided by our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, such disruptions in supply or degradations in quality could have a long-term detrimental impact on our efforts to develop a strong brand identity and a loyal consumer base. Although we maintain relationships with a number of suppliers and always attempt to have more than one potential supplier for any required item, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain multiple supply sources. If any supplier or distributor fails to perform as anticipated, or if there is a termination or any disruption in any of these relationships for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including managers, chefs and other kitchen staff, necessary to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. Although we have not experienced any significant challenges in recruiting or retaining employees, any future inability to recruit and retain sufficient individuals may delay the planned openings and development of new Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations. Any such delays or any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing Retail Cafés and in our Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the area. From July through October 2007, we purchased a total of eight stores in San Diego, California, in order to facilitate our initial entry into the San Diego market. We anticipate that our new Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations will typically take several months to reach budgeted operating levels due to challenges commonly associated with new businesses, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. Although we will attempt to mitigate these factors by careful attention to training and staffing needs, there is a risk that we will not be successful in operating our new Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations on a profitable basis. New markets that we enter may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations in those new markets to be less successful than those in our existing markets. Our expansion may strain our administrative, financial and informational infrastructure, which could slow our development. We face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, financial controls and information systems will be inadequate to support our planned expansion. We may not be able to accurately predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and these systems and controls. If we fail to continue to improve our information systems and financial controls or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our expansion objectives, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. All of our operations are currently located in Washington and California. As a result, we are highly sensitive to negative occurrences in those two states. We are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in the States of Washington and California, including in their labor markets. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our operations in the states of Washington or California could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, supply shortages, local economic conditions, consumer preferences, earthquakes or other natural disasters. 7 Our operation as a public company subjects us to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that result in significant expenses and liability exposures. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that non-public companies may not incur. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. We expect these rules and regulations, to increase significantly our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Like many smaller public companies, we face a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the independent auditors will eventually have to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls and the evaluation performed by management. The SEC has adopted rules implementing Section 404 for public companies as well as disclosure requirements. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has adopted documentation and attestation standards that the independent auditors must follow in conducting its attestation under Section 404. We have taken action to comply with Section 404; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet effectively all of the requirements of Section 404 as known to us in the currently mandated timeframe. Any failure to implement effectively new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or our independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and it is difficult to predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. All of our current management, other than Andrew Jacobs and Michael Gats, was previously the management of our operating subsidiary, Organic To Go, Inc., which we acquired in a reverse merger on February 12, 2007. Prior to that time, our subsidiary was a private company without public reporting obligations. As a result, prior to the merger, our management had committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would be required of a public company. We have taken and will continue to take measures to address and improve our financial reporting and compliance capabilities. If our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems or procedures fail, we may not be able to provide accurate financial statements on a timely basis or comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as it applies to us. Any failure of our internal controls or our ability to provide accurate financial statements could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. 8 We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of their services may adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team. The death or departure of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the loss of Jason Brown, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, could significantly impact our ability to operate and grow and could cause performance to differ materially from projected results. We have a $3 million “key man” insurance policy covering Mr. Brown. Our past activities prior to our merger with Organic Holding Company, Inc., may lead to future liability for the combined companies. Prior to February 12, 2007, we were engaged in businesses and were managed by parties unrelated to that of our new operations. Any liabilities relating to such prior business may have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive industry where many of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us in terms of resources and market share. As a result, many of our competitors offer products and services at a lower cost to consumers. Our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to develop and introduce differentiated products and services and deliver them to consumers in a widespread, convenient and cost-effective manner. The success of our products and services is dependent on several factors including understanding consumer needs, differentiation from competitive offerings, market acceptance and lower costs. Although we believe that we can take the necessary steps to meet the competitive challenges of the marketplaces in which we operate, we may not be successful in differentiating our products and services from those of our competitors or meeting consumer demand. Our operations are susceptible to changes in food and supply costs, which could adversely affect our margins. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Our centralized purchasing staff negotiates prices for all of our ingredients and supplies. Any increase in distribution costs could cause our food and supply costs to increase. Further, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulations, could cause our food and supply costs to increase. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food and supply costs by adjusting our purchasing practices in a timely fashion. A failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could negatively impact our results. Our Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations feature various types of organic foods and beverages. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods in the future. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine could materially adversely affect our future profitability. Also, our success depends on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce customer traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. We can also be materially adversely affected by negative publicity concerning food quality, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from our operations. 9 Our industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues which can cause customers to avoid our cafés and result in liabilities. We could become the subject of complaints or litigation from customers or employees alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us and our Retail Cafés, Delivery/Casual Catering Services and Wholesale operations, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Our operations are subject to governmental regulation associated with the food service industry, the operation and enforcement of which may restrict our ability to carry on our business. We are in the perishable food industry. The development, manufacture and marketing of products sold by us are subject to extensive regulation by various government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, as well as various state and local agencies. These agencies regulate production processes, product attributes, packaging, labeling, advertising, storage and distribution. These agencies establish and enforce standards for safety, purity and labeling. In addition, other governmental agencies (including the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration), establish and enforce health and safety standards and regulations in the workplace, including those in our retail locations. Our retail locations will be subject to inspection by federal, state and local authorities. Although we intend to comply at all times with all such laws and regulations, including obtaining and maintaining all necessary permits and licenses relating to our operations, there is a risk that we may not be able to comply with such laws and regulations on a timely basis, or at all. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures as well as potential criminal sanctions. In addition, compliance or attempted compliance with governmental laws and regulations may result in significant time or cost expenditures, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our products or continuing or expanding our operations. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, which may result in a significant decline in the value of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, most of which are beyond our control, such as: · the announcement of new products or services by us or our competitors; · quarterly variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · developments in our industry; and · general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance or the condition or prospects of our industry. Further, the stock market in general, and securities of small-cap companies in particular, have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in its value. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. 10 Although our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, trading may be extremely sporadic. A more active market for our common stock may not develop. Accordingly, you may have to bear the economic risk of an investment in our common stock indefinitely. We may not be able to list our common stock on a securities exchange, which may affect the liquidity of our common stock. We intend to seek to have our common stock listed on the American Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market as soon as practicable. However, we may not be able to initially meet or maintain the listing standards of either of those or any other stock exchange. In addition, if we fail to meet the listing standards set forth by the SEC regulations, various requirements may be imposed on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. These requirements may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We have a substantial number of convertible securities outstanding, which if fully exercised could require us to issue a significant number of shares of our common stock and result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. As of March 11, 2008, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase up to 4,914,938 and 12,386,608 shares of common stock, respectively. In the event these securities are exercised, you could suffer substantial dilution in terms of your percentage ownership of your common stock. A large number of additional shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On a fully diluted basis, we had 36,763,476 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 11, 2008. If these shares of common stock are registered or otherwise become eligible for public sale, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We have not and do not intend to pay any dividends. As a result, you may only be able to obtain a return on investment in our common stock if its value increases. Our current management has not paid dividends in the past and does not plan to pay dividends in the near future. We expect to retain earnings to finance and develop our business. In addition, the payment of future dividends will be directly dependent upon our earnings, our financial needs and other similarly unpredictable factors. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon future appreciation in its value. The price of our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 