D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report before making an investment in our Company. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company or investments in Perú in general. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. There are a number of factors, including those described below, which may adversely affect the price of our shares. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. See “Forward-Looking Statements”. Risk Factors Related to Telefónica del Perú Changes in the regulations affecting the Peruvian telecommunications industry and the liberalization of the Peruvian telecommunications market have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Since 1998, the Peruvian government has issued a number of decrees opening the telecommunications markets to increased competition. As a result, new operators have entered the markets in which we compete. As of December 2005, 75 concessions had been granted for fixed local and domestic and international long distance services. Our main competitor in fixed local telephony services and public telephone services is Telmex Perú and, in long distance telephony services, Americatel Perú, Telmex Perú and IDT Perú SRL (“IDT”). We also face direct competition in cable television services from Cable Express and, since March 2006, from DirectTV. Operators of data transmission networks and other companies providing wireless services (including companies spun off from us in the reorganization transactions) could become indirect competitors if and to the extent those services become substitutes for fixed wireline telephony. We expect that future competition is likely to develop among a small number of operators, each of whom will gain an increasing market share. Increased competition has adversely affected our results of operations in long distance services. Net settlement revenues have declined over the years due to increased competition among international carriers and private operators, which has led to a decrease in contractually negotiated average settlement rates. Our net settlement revenues will continue to decrease to the extent that our settlement rates for incoming international long distance traffic continue to decline due to competition. Furthermore, the launch of a new “multi-carrier system” in April 2002, which allows customers to choose their long distance carrier on a per-call basis, has also significantly intensified competition in both domestic and international long distance services. We believe that our revenues from 6 these long distance services will continue to decline due to increased competition from the multi-carrier system and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in restoring our levels of incoming traffic or maintaining our market share in this market. We expect that competition will have a greater impact on our fixed local telephony business in the near future in light of the new regulation in effect that has increased competition in the fixed local telephony market by introducing an “interoperability system” whereby other operators are permitted to access our fixed local network in order to provide service through prepaid phone cards. The interoperability system creates price competition and decreases our market share and customer base. In addition, we expect increased competition from providers of prepaid mobile cellular telephone services, which have become popular in other countries. This may have an adverse effect on our telephone services market share as more customers switch to mobile-only service. Given the range of regulatory, political and economic uncertainties, it is difficult for us to predict how our market share in the relevant customer segments will be affected, how the prevailing prices for services will change, or what effects future competition may have on our operations. We cannot assure you that the recent regulatory changes will not further increase competition and, as a result, adversely affect our results of operations and market share. Our State Contracts require us to make ongoing rate reductions which adversely affect our financial results. We provide telecommunications services in Perú pursuant to concessions granted by the Peruvian government through concessions contracts (the “State Contracts”). Under the terms of the State Contracts, we currently are and will continue to be subject to tariff regulation and oversight by the Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión Privada en Telecomunicaciones (“OSIPTEL”). Pursuant to the State Contracts, since September 2001, we have been subject to a price cap system the purpose of which is to decrease fixed local telephony and long distance rates. Under the price cap system, OSIPTEL uses a formula that takes into account, among other things, inflation and a productivity factor to set the maximum rates for local and long distance telephone services. The productivity factor is revised and published by OSIPTEL every three years. Under the price cap system, we are allowed to increase rates to account for inflation as determined by the Peruvian equivalent of the U.S. Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), but we must also decrease rates according to the productivity factor, which is a measure of the gains in productivity of our Company relative to the gains in productivity of the rest of the Peruvian economy. In July 2001, OSIPTEL set the productivity factor at (6%) annually, or (1.54%) quarterly. In July 2004, OSIPTEL raised the productivity factor for the period September 2004 to August 2007 to (10.07%) annually, or (2.619%) quarterly, the highest for comparable service worldwide, for fixed local service and (7.8%) annually, or (2.010%) quarterly, for domestic and international long distance services. In order to offset the rate decreases, we have focused on increase the amount of traffic on our network and enhancing our efficiency. However, our efforts to control operating costs, improve productivity and increase the volume of traffic over our network may not offset, in whole or in part, the decline in operating margins that may result from ongoing rate reductions. Future changes to the regulatory framework, which remains out of our control, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The interests of our affiliates, as our equity owners and creditors, may conflict with the interests of our minority shareholders. Telefónica, the Spanish telecommunications and media company, directly and through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Telefónica Internacional and Telefónica Perú Holding S.A.C., beneficially owned 98.1% of our capital stock as of March 24, 2006. Accordingly, Telefónica controls us and can determine the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our board of directors and, subject to the requirements of Peruvian laws, the payment of dividends. In addition, our day-to-day management and operations are the responsibility of Telefónica Internacional under a management contract entered into between us and Telefónica Internacional in 1994. Affiliates of Telefónica are also involved in other joint and separate investments and operations in the Peruvian communications and media sector, some of which may involve or affect us. Telefónica’s interest as our controlling shareholder may conflict with the interests of our minority shareholders. 7 Telefónica, through its affiliates, is also involved in other joint and separate investments in the communications and media sector in Perú, including the mobile cellular services following the effectiveness of the spin-off in 2001. This business operation is controlled by Telefónica Móviles, S.A., which is a controlled subsidiary of Telefónica, independent from us. We also have a business support agreement with Telefónica Gestión de Servicios Compartidos Perú S.A.C., which is also a controlled subsidiary of our parent company. In some circumstances, our interests may not be aligned with and may perhaps be adverse to the interests of Telefónica or its affiliates with influence over Telefónica Internacional’s actions. Telefónica or its affiliates may cause us to limit or forgo our pursuit of certain business opportunities so that other Telefónica affiliates may pursue them, and the pursuit of such opportunities by other affiliates may not be in our interest. Our State Contracts may not be renewed if we do not comply with their terms as determined by the Peruvian government. Under the terms of our State Contracts, the Peruvian Ministry of Transport and Communications (the “Ministry”) may decide to not renew or extend our contracts due to our continued noncompliance, as determined by the Peruvian government, the terms thereof. In December 2003, we petitioned the government for a five-year extension of our State Contracts from 2019 to 2024. The Ministry reviewed the OSIPTEL’s evaluation report which stated that we had failed to comply with certain terms of the concession contracts. Based on this report on June 11, 2004, the Ministry notified us of its intention not to renew our State Contracts. On June 25, 2004, we filed a petition challenging OSIPTEL’s report based on certain errors and the Ministry’s decision to deny Telefónica’s petition to extend the term of such contracts. To date, the Ministry has not issued its final ruling denying or granting the renewal of the concession. If this extension is denied, we may again petition for five-year extensions in 2008 and 2013. We cannot assure you that our State Contracts will be renewed for an additional five-year period, thus they may expire in 2019. Our State Contracts are revocable and may be modified under certain circumstances. Under the terms of the State Contracts, the Peruvian government may, if deemed to be in the public interest, unilaterally modify the terms of such contracts (i) as such terms relate to Perú’s international telecommunications policy and (ii) when necessary to comply with international laws, treaties or conventions. Any such unilateral modification must be carried out in accordance with certain administrative procedures providing for public comment on any proposed changes. However, we cannot assure you that the government will not seek to unilaterally modify the terms of the State Contracts. In addition, the Peruvian Congress, on November 19, 2001, sought to pass laws that would require us to charge fixed-line telephone calls on a per second basis rather than a per minute basis and, on April 25, 2002, sought to pass laws that would eradicate the fixed rate that we charge for our fixed local telephony service. The executive branch of Perú suspended the enactment of both laws on the basis that such laws unconstitutionally modified the terms of a government contract through impermissible legislative action. Subsequently, the Congress rejected both laws. The State Contracts provide that repeated noncompliance with the terms of such contracts, including service requirements, maximum tariffs, interconnection requirements and international obligations, could result in one or more of the concessions being revoked or modified. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not face challenges to the terms of our contracts from the Peruvian government in the future or that the outcome will be favorable to us if we do face such challenges. Temporary or permanent revocation of any of our concessions will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4: “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory Matters”. We depend on key personnel and our controlling shareholder. Our senior management and senior operating officers consist, in part, of individuals previously employed by Telefónica. We believe that our increased revenues and improved efficiency since the privatization are largely a result of the technical expertise and management skills of our personnel. We also believe that our future success in a competitive environment will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced personnel, and the inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our Company. 8 In addition, our relationship with Telefónica Internacional provides our Company with certain competitive advantages obtained through technology transfer and management agreements as a result of Telefónica Internacional’s experience in the telecommunications business in Latin America. Telefónica Internacional also provides us with increased negotiating power through alliances with other affiliates, as well as access to technology, product research and development and purchasing power. If Telefónica Internacional should cease to be a controlling shareholder, our results of operation and financial condition could suffer a material adverse effect. Rapid technological advances may require us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the competitiveness of our service offerings. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and requires the introduction of new products and services. Like other operators, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. New services and technological advances may offer additional opportunities for competitors to compete against us on the basis of cost, quality or functionality. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to technological changes. This may require us to devote significant capital to the development, procurement or implementation of new technologies, and may be dependent on the final cost in local currency of an imported technology and our ability to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the nature and extent of the impact of technological change on our viability or competitiveness. If any future technological change places at risk our viability or competitiveness, the cost of upgrading our products and technology in order to continue to compete effectively could be significant, and our ability to fund this upgrading may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing at acceptable costs. One such advance is the current available technology that permits telephone calls and internet access (which itself may be used to carry voice calls) via cable. We expect increased competition from providers of such services, especially as more people in Perú are able to access computers and broadband. These developments could affect our results of operations, especially in our long distance telephone segment. We employ a largely unionized labor force and could be subject to an organized labor action. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 2,012 of our employees were union members. We recently completed our collective bargaining negotiations with the three unions that represent our workforce and entered into agreements that will be in effect through November 30, 2006. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these agreements in the future or that strikes or other types of conflict with the unions or unionized personnel will not result. If our contingency plans prove to be inadequate, our ability to maintain ordinary service levels or otherwise operate our business in the manner that customers expect could be materially adversely affected, and we could face an immediate loss of revenue. Damage to our reputation could also result, with a potential longer-term negative effect on revenues. Our results of operations and financial condition could then be materially adversely affected. Peruvian accounting standards differ from U.S. GAAP, which affects how we account for certain items. The financial statements presented in this Annual Report have been prepared in accordance with Peruvian GAAP, which differs in certain respects from U.S. GAAP. In particular, due to the high inflation rates experienced in the past, between 1989 and 2004 all Peruvian companies were required to incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and in their published financial statements. As of 2005, such practice has been discontinued by the CNC. Thus, the presentation of Peruvian financial statements and reported earnings may differ from those of companies in other countries in this and other respects. See note 30 to the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of the principal differences between Peruvian GAAP and U.S. GAAP as they relate to our Company and a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP of net income and shareholders’ equity. 9 Risk Factors Related to Perú Perú’s economic conditions have an impact on our business, operations and the market price of our Class B shares. Substantially all of our operations, capital investments and customers are located in Perú. Our business, financial condition and results of operation have been, and will continue to be, affected by the economic environment in Perú. Although Peruvian GDP increased by 6.7% in 2005, which represented the highest rate in eight years, the nation’s economy has historically experienced considerable fluctuations in growth, proving to be vulnerable to external factors, including but not limited to volatility in interest rates in global financial markets, changes in international prices of commodities, low growth affecting the United States and other trading partners, and changes in the credit ratings of Peruvian sovereign bonds. Perú’s economy is also affected by internal factors, including but not limited to general current economic, business or political events in Perú, the depreciation of the nuevo sol, the ability of the Peruvian government to enact key economic reforms, the levels of domestic debt and domestic inflation, the level of foreign direct and portfolio investment and natural occurrences such as El Niño, earthquakes and floods. In general, changes in Perú’s economic indicators such as per capita income, levels of private consumption, exchange rates, employment rates and inflation would indirectly affect our results of operations, as a downturn in the economy would adversely impact, among other things, the value of our Class B shares, our ability to access internal and external capital markets, the demand for our products and services, and our customers’ ability to make timely payments. Adjustments to our tariffs to take into account increases in inflation may not be adequate enough to fully offset decreases in revenues caused by such inflation. The inflation rate in Perú, as measured by the CPI, was 1.5% in 2005. Low levels of inflation are likely to continue in 2006. We are authorized to adjust tariffs on fixed local and long distance telephone services based on increases in the CPI net of the productivity factors. However, even if our tariffs successfully keep up with inflation, we cannot assure you that such adjustments will adequately offset the adverse impact that increased inflation would have on our revenues, business and demand for our products and services. We are affected by changes in the political climate in Perú to the extent that such changes affect the nation’s economic and regulatory policies. Our results of operation and financial condition may be affected by changes in Perú’s political climate to the extent that such changes affect the nation’s economic policies or regulatory regime. Between 1968 and 1990, the Peruvian government played an interventionist role in the nation’s economy by expropriating private sector assets and imposing price controls, exchange rate controls, restrictions on local and foreign investment and international trade, and restrictions on the ability of companies to dismiss employees. Although the Peruvian government has not played an interventionist role since 1990, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changes in government policies with respect to any of the factors previously mentioned. The political and economic impact of the upcoming Peruvian presidential and congressional elections is uncertain. Perú will hold first round elections on April 9, 2006. If no presidential candidate wins 50% or more of the votes in the first round election, a second round election between the top two presidential candidates will be held in May 2006. The outcome of these elections as well as the economic policies of the new government are uncertain. Despite the uncertainty of the electoral outcome, the next president will not likely have a majority in Congress. However, economic analysts predict that Perú’s economy will grow around 5% in 2006 despite the uncertainty of the electoral outcome according to the Central Bank’s survey dated February 28, 2006. Deterioration in economic and market conditions in Latin America and other emerging market countries adversely affects the Peruvian economy and our business. The market for securities issued by Peruvian companies is influenced by economic and market conditions in Perú and, to varying degrees, market conditions in other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country is likely 10 to cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. For example, political and economic events, such as the crises in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Brazil and Argentina, have influenced investors’ perceptions of risk with regards to Perú. The negative investor reaction to developments in our neighboring countries adversely affects the market for securities issued by countries in the region, causes foreign investors to decrease the flow of capital into Latin America, and introduces uncertainty about plans for further integration of regional economies, all of which affects Perú. On April 9, 2006, Perú will hold first round presidential, congressional and municipal elections. Depreciation of the nuevo sol or unexpected changes in exchange controls could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The Peruvian currency has historically experienced a significant number of devaluations and, as a result, the Peruvian government has adopted and operated under various exchange rate control practices and determination policies, ranging from strict control to market determination of exchange rates. The nuevo sol depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 2.0% in 2002, appreciated by 1.5% in 2003, appreciated by 5.2% in 2004 and depreciated by 4.5% in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had S/.2,638 million in total debt, of which, 20% was denominated in U.S. dollars, 79% was denominated in nuevos soles and the remainder in euros. In 2005, although we received approximately 17.7% of our revenues in U.S. dollars, the majority of our revenues were denominated in nuevos soles. However, since some of the equipment and supplies we purchase are priced in currencies other than nuevos soles, depreciation of the nuevo sol would cause the technology and goods necessary to operate our business to become more expensive. In order to counteract this risk, we restructured our liabilities in terms of currency and maturity. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce, to the extent possible, our exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate. After hedges, our exposure to financial debt is US$42.7 million. See note 29 to the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements, Item 5: “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Item 11: “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that our risk management strategies will be successful in limiting our exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The failure of such risk management strategies would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 