Item 1A. Risk Factors Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected. We recently appointed a full time project executive to drive improvements in receivables performance, added resources to prevent delays in cash posting, implemented new processes to improve timeliness and accountability and expanded our use of automated tools to post cash in order to improve both speed and accuracy. In addition, we implemented an improved process to quantify and document our estimates for uncollectible accounts. We have also changed processes at the point-of-sale in order to decrease billing and collection concerns. While management believes these efforts will improve collections, there can be no assurance that any of these controls and processes will improve our level of accounts receivable collectability in future periods. Competition in the pharmaceutical healthcare services industry could reduce profit margins. The pharmaceutical healthcare services industry is very competitive. Our competitors include large and well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. The specialty pharmacy industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are under common control with, or ownership by, pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors or retail pharmacy chains and may be better positioned with respect to the cost-effective distribution of pharmaceuticals. In addition, some of our competitors may have secured long-term supply or distribution arrangements for prescription pharmaceuticals necessary to treat certain chronic disease states on price terms substantially more favorable than the terms currently available to us. As a result of such advantageous pricing, we may be less price competitive than some of these competitors with respect to certain pharmaceutical products. Our competitive position could also be adversely affected by any inability to obtain access to new biotech pharmaceutical products. Over the last several years competition in the marketplace has caused many PBMs, including us, to reduce the prices charged to clients for core services and share a larger portion of the formulary fees and rebates received from pharmaceutical manufacturers with clients. This combination of lower pricing and increased rebate sharing, as well as increased demand for enhanced service offerings and higher service levels, have put pressure on operating margins. In addition, some of our larger competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be able 16 Table of Contents to offer. This competition may make it more difficult to maintain existing customers and attract new customers and may cause us to face the risk of declining reimbursement levels without achieving corresponding reductions in costs of revenues. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, we may not continue to remain competitive in the PBM marketplace, and competition could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and our PBM and Specialty pharmacy clients, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription medications. These benchmarks include average wholesale price (“AWP”), wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”) and average manufacturer price (“AMP”). Most of our contracts utilize the AWP benchmark. First Databank, a leading provider of electronic drug information to the health care industry, recently entered into a proposed settlement to address certain practices with regards to the establishment of the AWP for brand medications. If the proposed settlement is approved by the court, it would have industry-wide impact on prescription drug prices. We cannot predict the outcome of this case, or, if the settlement is approved, the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes. Most of our provider and payor agreements contain provisions that allow us to manage the impact of this proposed settlement, if ratified as is or modified by the parties or the court. However, we can give no assurance that the short or long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. Client demands for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with clients or providers could pressure margins. As our clients face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive environment, and we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services, which could put pressure on our margins. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the client on relatively short notice. Our clients generally seek bids from other PBM or specialty providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. If several of these clients elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, the likelihood such client would renew its contract with us could be reduced. More than 58,000 retail pharmacies, which represent more than 98% of all United States retail pharmacies, participate in our pharmacy network. However, the top ten retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 48% of the total number of stores in our network, and an even higher concentration in certain areas of the United States, and over 60% of prescriptions filled in our network. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable on relatively short notice. If one or more of the top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, our members’ access to retail pharmacies and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many large pharmacy chains either own PBMs today, or could attempt to acquire a PBM in the future. Ownership of PBMs by retail pharmacy chains could have material adverse effects on our relationships with such pharmacy chains and on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Pending and future litigation could subject us to significant monetary damages and/or require us to change our business practices. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to litigation and other proceedings in connection with our operations, including the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our mail service and community pharmacies. A list of the more significant proceedings pending against us is included under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” While we believe that these suits are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we can give no assurance that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations, or would not require us to make material changes to our business practices. We are presently responding to several subpoenas and requests for information from governmental agencies. We cannot predict with certainty what the result of any such inquiry might be. In addition to potential monetary liability arising from these suits and proceedings, we are incurring costs in the defense of the suits and in providing documents to government agencies. Certain of the costs are covered by our insurance, but certain other costs are not insured. Such costs have become material to our financial performances and we can give no assurance that such costs will not increase in the future. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, including the performance of PBM Services and the operation of our pharmacies. A successful professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For example, a prescription drug dispensing error could result in a patient receiving the wrong or incorrect amount of medication, leading to personal injury or death. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable contractual indemnity or insurance coverage. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a participant in the pharmaceutical healthcare services industry, our operations are subject to complex and evolving federal and state laws and regulations and enforcement by federal and state governmental agencies. These laws and regulations are described in detail at Part I, Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation.” While we believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Loss of relationships with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers and changes in payments made by pharmaceutical manufacturers could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide discounts on drugs dispensed from our mail service and community pharmacies, pay rebates based on sales of drugs from our mail order pharmacy and pharmacies in our network of retail pharmacies and pay service fees should be for other programs and services that we provide. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if: (i) we were to lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; (ii) rebates or other discounts decline due to changes in utilization of specified pharmaceutical products by health plan sponsors and other clients; (iii) legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services; or (iv) pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services. Failure to develop new products, services and delivery channels may adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our clients in managing the pharmacy benefit. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business, as we continue to utilize new and better channels to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured business and technology infrastructure. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The use of personal health information in our business is regulated at federal, state and local levels. These laws and rules change frequently and developments often require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure. Noncompliance with these regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our business. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Certain proposals have been made at the federal and state government levels in an effort to control healthcare costs, including lowering reimbursement and/or proposing to lower reimbursement under Medicaid and Medicare programs. These proposals include “single payer” government funded health care and price controls on prescription drugs. If these or similar efforts are successful our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect health care financing and reimbursement practices. If the current health care financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, our business could be materially adversely affected. Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase government involvement in health care and regulation of PBM services, or otherwise change the way our clients do business. Health plan sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that we provide. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on our business. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the health care system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We process significant volumes of pharmacy claims for brand-name and generic drugs from our mail service and community pharmacies and through our network of retail pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk 19 Table of Contents profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. Failure of the CMS claims processor to timely or properly match claims for payment could adversely affect our financial results. BioScrip submits claims for reimbursement from CMS through a claims processor which creates a common work file of data used to match with the claims information provided by the physicians through their local carrier. Failure on the part of the claims processor to timely and properly process and match claims for reimbursement will prevent or delay BioScrip from seeking reimbursement from CMS and may adversely affect BioScrip’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Network lock-outs by health insurers could adversely affect our financial results. Many Plan Sponsors and PBMs continue to create exclusive specialty networks which limit a member's access to a mail service facility or network of preferred pharmacies. To the extent our pharmacies are excluded from these networks, we are unable to dispense medications to those members and bill for prescriptions to those members insurance carriers. If these specialty networks continue to expand and we are locked out from dispensing specialty medications to members of exclusive networks, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 