ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this report. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we anticipate. Discussion about the material operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in our MD&A, in the business descriptions in Item 1 of this report and in previous SEC filings. Below, we have described our present view of the material risks facing our business. Risks Related to Our Business We must develop new products and enhancements to existing products to remain competitive. We are currently developing new products and enhancements to existing products. We cannot assure you that we will initiate, continue with and/or succeed in our efforts to develop or enhance such products. It is expected that we will file 510(k) applications with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and similar filings with governmental authorities in other countries in connection with our future products and certain of our future product enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will file applications for or obtain regulatory approval from the FDA, either in the form of a pre-market clearance or a 510(k) clearance, for any of our future products, or that in order to obtain FDA clearance, we will not be required to submit additional data or meet additional FDA requirements that may substantially delay the application process and result in substantial additional expense. In addition, such pre-marketing clearance, if obtained, may be subject to conditions on marketing or manufacturing which could impede our ability to manufacture and/or market our products. There can be no assurance that any new products will be developed by us, or if developed, will be approved by, or receive marketing clearance from, applicable domestic and/or international governmental or regulatory authorities. If we are unable to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and market new products and enhancements to existing products, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we cannot obtain or maintain approval from government agencies, we will not be able to sell our products. We must obtain certain approvals by, and marketing clearances from, governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar health authorities in foreign countries to market and sell our products in those countries. These regulatory agencies regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices. The FDA enforces additional regulations regarding the safety of X-ray emitting devices. Our products are currently regulated by such authorities and certain of our new products will require approval by, or marketing clearance from, various governmental authorities, including the FDA. Various states also impose similar regulations. The FDA review process typically requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new products. A 510(k) application is required in order to market a new or modified medical device. If specifically required by the FDA, a pre-market approval, or PMA, may be necessary. Such proceedings, which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device, are potentially expensive and time consuming. They may delay or hinder a product’s timely entry into the marketplace. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the review or approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable governmental authority will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in such a manner as will adversely affect us. The FDA also oversees the content of advertising and marketing materials relating to medical devices which have received FDA clearance. Failure to comply with the FDA’s advertising guidelines may result in the imposition of penalties. We are also be subject to other federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices. The extent of government regulation that might result from any future legislation or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similar to the FDA review process, the EU review process typically requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new products. Such proceedings, which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device, are potentially expensive and time consuming and may delay or prevent a product’s entry into the marketplace. 12 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively affected if we do not continue to adapt to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and new product introductions. The market for our products is characterized by rapid and significant technological change, evolving industry standards and new product introductions. Our products require significant planning, design, development and testing which requires significant capital commitments and investment by us. There can be no assurance that our products or proprietary technologies will not become noncompetitive or obsolete as a result of technological change, evolving industry standards or new product introductions or that we will be able to generate any economic return on our investment in product development. If our products or technologies become noncompetitive or obsolete, our business could be negatively affected. Our profitability may be negatively impacted by adverse general macroeconomic conditions in the geographic markets in which we sell our products. Our profitability depends in part on the varying economic and other conditions of the global dental market, which in turn is impacted by general macroeconomic conditions in the geographic markets in which we sell our products. Growth in the global dental market over the past few years has been driven by a number of factors, including a growth in disposable income, a shift towards private pay, a greater need for dental preventative care and an increased emphasis on aesthetics. Demand for our products would be negatively impacted by a decline in the economy in general, including interest rate and tax changes, that impact the financial strength of our customers, as well as by changes in the economy in general that reduce disposable income among dental consumers in the markets we sell our products, which would in turn reduce the demand for preventative and aesthetic dental services. The recent disruptions in the overall world economy and financial markets could reduce disposable income among dental consumers and negatively affect the demand for dental services, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit for our customers. Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivable. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In the last two fiscal years, our business was impacted by the weak global economy, which resulted in a challenging environment for selling dental technologies. We have observed that some dentists are postponing investments in equipment. We are dependent upon a limited number of distributors for a significant portion of our revenue, and loss of these key distributors could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has come from a limited number of distributors. For example, Patterson Dental Company, Inc. accounted for 30% of revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. In addition, 15% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, was attributable to sales to Henry Schein, Inc. It is anticipated that Patterson and Henry Schein will continue to be the largest contributors to our revenue for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that Patterson and Henry Schein will purchase any specified minimum quantity of products from us or that they will continue to purchase any products at all. If Patterson or Henry Schein ceases to purchase a significant volume of products from us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition in the markets for our products is intense, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Competition relating to our current products is intense and includes various companies, both within and outside of the United States. We anticipate that competition for our future products will also be intense and include various companies, both within and outside of the United States, Asia and Europe. Our competitors and potential competitors include large companies with substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, and technical resources, larger and more experienced research and development staffs, more extensive physical facilities and substantially greater experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and in marketing products than we have. In addition, we cannot assure you that our competitors are not currently developing, or will not attempt to develop, technologies and products that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would otherwise render our existing and new technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. We may not be able to compete successfully and may lose market share to our competitors. Our failure to obtain issued patents and, consequently, to protect our proprietary technology could hurt our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce claims in our patents directed to our products, technologies and processes, both in the United States and in other countries. Risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and patent applications include the following: • the pending patent applications that we have filed, or to which we have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; 13 Table of Contents • the allowed claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; • we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; • disputes may arise regarding inventions and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our respective licensors; and • other companies may design around the technologies patented by us. Our revenue and operating results are likely to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and our operating results are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. These variations result from a number of factors, many of which are substantially outside of our control, including: • the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; • timing of industry tradeshows, particularly the International Dental Show; • changes in relationships with distributors; • developments in government reimbursement policies; • changes in product mix; • our ability to supply products to meet customer demand; • fluctuations in manufacturing costs; • tax incentives; • currency fluctuations; and • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro, because a large portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in Euros. In addition, we have an increasing portion of revenue and expenses denominated in other foreign currencies, e.g. Yen, Australian Dollar, and Yuan Renminbi. While we enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements from time to time do not provide comprehensive protection. We monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our situation. If we do not enter into effective hedging arrangements in the future, our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our hedging transactions may expose us to loss or limit our potential gains. As part of our risk management program, we use foreign currency exchange forward contracts. While intended to reduce the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, these transactions may limit our potential gains or expose us to loss. Should our counterparties to such transactions or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from these transactions. We enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts as economic hedges of trade commitments or anticipated commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency to mitigate the effects of changes in currency rates. Although we do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes or speculation, and although our management believes all of these instruments are economically effective as hedges of underlying physical transactions, these foreign exchange commitments are dependent on timely performance by our counterparties. Their failure to perform could result in our having to close these hedges without the anticipated underlying transaction and could result in losses if foreign currency exchange rates have changed. 14 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have material adverse consequences for our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We have total bank debt to unrelated parties of $370.7 million as of September 30, 2010. This level of indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • increase the risk that we would be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due on our indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and to adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, including any indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts or to sell capital stock for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Restrictive covenants and conditions contained in our senior credit agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on our business. Our senior credit agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants and conditions that impose operating and financial restrictions on our business, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in the best interests of the business. These restrictions and conditions include a mandatory prepayment on a change in control or sale of all or substantially all assets, as well as significant restrictions on mergers and on any business acquisition. Other covenants limit changes to our business, lending activities, investments including joint ventures, further indebtedness, and the payment of dividends and capital share redemptions. The financial covenants require that we maintain a debt coverage ratio of consolidated total net debt to consolidated adjusted EBITDA of no more than 2.50 to 1, and a cash interest coverage ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA to cash interest costs of 4.00 to 1 or greater. Failure to comply with these covenants will result in a default under the terms of our senior credit agreement and could result in acceleration of this indebtedness. For more information concerning compliance with these covenants, please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources. If we lose our key management personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, it could adversely affect our results of operations or delay or hurt our research and product development efforts. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to hire and retain management, sales, technical, research and other personnel who are in high demand and are often subject to competing employment opportunities. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may experience difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. It is expected that we will grow in certain areas of our operations as we develop and, assuming receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals, market our products. We will therefore need to recruit personnel, particularly sales and marketing personnel, and expand our capabilities, which may strain our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To compete effectively and manage our growth, we must: • train, manage, motivate and retain a growing employee base; 15 Table of Contents • accurately forecast demand for, and revenue from, our product candidates; and • expand existing operational, financial and management information systems to support our development and planned commercialization activities and the multiple locations of our offices. Our failure to manage these challenges effectively could materially harm our business. Since we operate in markets outside of the United States and Europe, we are subject to additional risks. We anticipate that sales outside of the United States and Europe will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Such revenue is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: • economic and political instability; • import or export licensing requirements; • trade restrictions; • longer payment cycles; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights. These risks may impair our ability to generate revenue from our sales efforts. In addition, many countries outside of the United States and Europe have their own regulatory approval requirements for the sale of products. As a result, the introduction of new products into, and our continued sale of existing products in, these markets could be prevented, and/or costly and/or time-consuming, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we operate outside the United States, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though such partners are foreign companies that are not subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be a party to legal actions that are not covered by insurance. We may be a party to a variety of legal actions, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, stockholder suits, including securities fraud, governmental investigations and intellectual property related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations. Although we have maintained insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, we cannot assure you that such insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it can be obtained in sufficient amounts or at reasonable cost or that it will be sufficient to cover any claims that may arise. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance and/or insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for critical components. If these suppliers delay or discontinue the manufacture of these components, we may experience delays in shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We rely on key suppliers for various critical components and procure certain components from outside sources which are sole suppliers. The availability and prices of these components may be subject to change due to interruptions in production, changing market conditions and other events. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these components at any time. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we are unable to develop reasonably-priced alternative sources in a timely manner, or if we encounter delays or other difficulties in the supply of such products and other materials from third parties, our business and results of operations may be harmed. In past years, semiconductors have been subject to significant price fluctuations. While we have, in the past, attempted to mitigate the effects of such potential fluctuations, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so or that we will be able to successfully mitigate the effect of future price increases on our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 1 Business – Manufacturing and Suppliers. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technologies and trademarks for their own businesses. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of patent and trademark law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and contractual arrangements with our employees, strategic partners and others. We cannot assure you that any of our patents, any of the patents of which we are a licensee or any patents which may be issued to us or which we may license in the future, will provide us with a competitive advantage or afford us protection against infringement by others, or that the patents will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by third parties, including our competitors. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we will offer, or intend to offer, our products. Any failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary content and impair our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or to defend against any claims of infringement of patents owned by third parties that are asserted against us. In addition, we may have to participate in one or more interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office or other foreign patent governing authorities, to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial costs. If we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings, we may incur substantial expense, and the proceedings may divert the attention of our technical and management personnel, even if we ultimately prevail. An adverse determination in proceedings of this type could subject us to significant liabilities, allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us, prohibit us from marketing our products or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain such licenses, we may be restricted or prevented from commercializing our products. The enforcement, defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights, including the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s, the European Patent Office’s and other foreign patent offices’ interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, these proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert against others or defend us against claims of infringement; • enforce patents owned by, or licensed to us from, another party; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs. These changes include legislative healthcare reform, the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing 17 Table of Contents arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. Some of these potential changes may cause a decrease in demand for and/or reduce the prices of our products. These changes could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, similar legislative efforts in the future could adversely impact our business. Product liability claims exposure could be significant. We may face exposure to product liability claims and recalls for unforeseen reasons from consumers, distributors or others. We may experience material product liability losses in the future, and we may incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective; we may be required to participate in a recall involving those products. End-users of our products may look to us for contribution when faced with product recalls or product liability claims. Although we have maintained insurance coverage related to product liability claims, we cannot assure you that product liability insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it can be obtained in sufficient amounts or at reasonable cost or that it will be sufficient to cover any claims that may arise. We may not maintain any insurance relating to potential recalls of our products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could reduce our profits and/or impair our financial condition, and damage our reputation. Product warranty claims exposure could be significant. We generally warrant each of our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year from the date of shipment plus any extended warranty period purchased by the customer. The future costs associated with providing product warranties could be material. A successful warranty claim brought against us could reduce our profits and/or impair our financial condition, and damage our reputation. Adverse publicity regarding the safety of our technology or products could negatively impact us. Despite any favorable safety tests that may be completed with respect to our products, adverse publicity regarding application of X-ray products or other products being developed or marketed by others could negatively affect us. If other researchers’ studies raise or substantiate concerns over the safety of our technology approach or product development efforts generally, our reputation could be harmed, which would adversely impact our business. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for procedures using our products may cause our revenue to decline. Third-party payers, including government health administration authorities, private health care insurers and other organizations regulate the reimbursement of fees related to certain diagnostic procedures or medical treatments. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. While we cannot predict what effect the policies of government entities and other third-party payers will have on future sales of our products, there can be no assurance that such policies would not cause our revenue to decline. We have developed and must continue to maintain internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including managements’ assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its certain limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. As a result, even effective internal controls may not provide reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become either obsolete or inadequate as a result of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementing new or revised controls, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price for our common stock to decline even if our business is doing well. Future sales by us or by our existing stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sirona Holdings Luxco SCA, or “Luxco”, requested that we register common stock that they own under the Securities Act pursuant to contractual registration rights, and on August 19, 2008, we filed a registration statement providing for the potential resale of up to 36,972,480 shares of our common stock. In August 2009, December 2009, and February 2010, Luxco sold 8,625,000, 7,100,000, and 7,000,000 shares, respectively, pursuant to underwritten public offerings. We cannot predict the size or timing of actual future sales of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the expectation of such sales, would have on the market price of our common stock. Our largest stockholder can exert influence over us and may have interests that diverge from yours. At September 30, 2010, Luxco owned approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Luxco has the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. This concentration in ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. Luxco may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our common stock. As a result, Luxco may vote the shares it owns or otherwise cause us to take actions that may conflict with your best interests as a stockholder, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us. These provisions include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the authority of the board of directors to adopt amendments to our bylaws without shareholder approval; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. We are also subject to the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval were obtained. In addition, in the event of a “change of control” as defined in our senior credit agreement, we may be required to, among other things, repay all of our obligations outstanding under the senior credit agreement, with interest thereon, which could materially adversely impact the value of our common stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us, our competitors, or our distribution partners; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 