Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this document. If any of the risks discussed in this document occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the residential mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued in 2008. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including loans secured by residential properties. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Continued negative developments in the financial institutions industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorizes the U.S. Treasury Department (the “Treasury”) to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program (“TARP”). The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to 5 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Under the CPP, the Treasury has purchased preferred equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Treasury recently announced its Financial Stability Plan to attack the current credit crisis, and President Obama has signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system, improve the flow of credit and foster an economic recovery. The regulatory and legislative initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and may adversely affect us. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued deterioration of the economy and real estate market in Michigan could hurt our business. At of December 31, 2008, approximately 88.5% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Michigan. A decline in real estate values has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. Continued declines in real estate sales and prices coupled with a further economic slowdown or deeper recession and an associated increase in unemployment could result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits, which may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and hurt our business. Such declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Our business is subject to various lending risks depending on the nature of the borrower’s business, its cash flow and our collateral. Our commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of these loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operating and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. At December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans, excluding construction and development loans, totaled approximately 64.4% of our total loan portfolio. 6 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on cash flow of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial and industrial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Adverse changes in local economic conditions impacting our business borrowers can be expected to have a negative effect on our results of operations and capital. At December 31, 2008, commercial and industrial loans totaled approximately 9.5% of our total loan portfolio. Our construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs to construct and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, upon the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. Delays in completing the project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredictable contingencies. If the estimate of the construction cost is inaccurate, we may be required to advance additional funds to complete construction. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of the project. At December 31, 2008, construction and development loans totaled approximately 5.6% of our total loan portfolio; however, at that date these loans represented 13.9% of our non-performing assets. Our consumer loans generally have a higher risk of default than our other loans. Consumer loans entail greater risk than our other loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy, all of which increase when the economy is weak. Furthermore, the application of various Federal and state laws, including Federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. At December 31, 2008, consumer loans, including credit card loans, totaled approximately 2.0% of our total loan portfolio. We may elect, or be required, to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $9.5 million, compared to $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which has adversely affected our results of operations for 2008. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Generally, our non- performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy. In addition, slowing sales in certain housing markets have been a contributing factor to the increase in non-performing loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. We have modified $8.2 million of loans, predominantly commercial and commercial real estate loans, which we identified as possibly becoming nonperforming. At December 31, 2008, our total non-performing assets, excluding these modified loans, had increased to $21.5 million compared to $18.5 million at December 31, 2007. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, coupled with the downsizing of the U.S. auto industry which is significant to the southeastern Michigan region, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a recession continues, we expect that it would further negatively impact economic conditions and we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An 7 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) increase in our credit losses or our provision for loan losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, or if we are required to increase our provision for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In addition, future rate resets on adjustable rate loans could drive increases in delinquencies and ultimately losses on these loans beyond that which has been provided for in the allowance for loan losses. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Material additions to the allowance or increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may elect to increase our provision for loan losses in light of our assessment of economic conditions and other factors from time to time. For example, as described under the risk factor “ - We may elect, or be required, to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations” above, we increased our provision for loan losses during 2008, which adversely affected our results of operations. We may elect, or be required, to make further increases in our quarterly provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity. The results of operations for financial institutions, including the Bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all our loans are to businesses and individuals in Southeastern Michigan and any decline in the economy of this area could adversely affect us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in these rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. Our deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $410,000 compared to $283,000 for the same period in 2007. Deposit insurance premiums are expected to continue to increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from the cost of large bank failures and increase in the number of troubled banks. The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums on all FDIC-insured institutions quarterly based on annualized rates for four risk categories. Each institution is assigned to one of four risk categories based on its capital, supervisory ratings and other factors. Well capitalized institutions that are financially sound with only a few minor weaknesses are assigned to Risk Category I. Risk Categories II, III and IV present progressively greater risks to the DIF. Under FDIC’s risk-based assessment rules, effective April 1, 2009, the initial base assessment rates prior to adjustments range from 12 to 16 basis points for Risk Category I, and are 22 basis points for Risk Category II, 32 basis points for Risk Category III, and 45 basis points for Risk Category IV. Initial base assessment rates are subject to adjustments based on an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits, such that 8 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) the total base assessment rates after adjustments range from 7 to 24 basis points for Risk Category I, 17 to 43 basis points for Risk Category II, 27 to 58 basis points for Risk Category III, and 40 to 77.5 basis points for Risk Category IV. The rule also includes authority for the FDIC to increase or decrease total base assessment rates in the future by as much as three basis points without a formal rulemaking proceeding. In addition to the regular quarterly assessments, due to losses and projected losses attributed to failed institutions, the FDIC has adopted a rule, effective April 1, 2009, imposing on every insured institution a special assessment equal to 20 basis points of its assessment base as of June 30, 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. There is a proposal under discussion, under which the FDIC’s line of credit with the U.S. Treasury would be increased and the FDIC would reduce the special assessment to 10 basis points. There can be no assurance whether the proposal will become effective. The special assessment rule also authorizes the FDIC to impose additional special assessments if the reserve ratio of the DIF is estimated to fall to a level that the FDIC’s board believes would adversely affect public confidence or that is close to zero or negative. Any additional special assessment would be in amount up to 10 basis points on the assessment base for the quarter in which it is imposed and would be collected at the end of the following quarter. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to fund our balance sheet activities, replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. Historically we relied on wholesale borrowings to help fund our lending activities. We borrow on a collateralized basis from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, or the FHLB. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding approximately $108.2 million of FHLB advances, $276.5 million in certificates of deposit (which included $166.4 million of brokered certificates of deposit, $6.0 million in municipal deposits, and $1.1 million in Internet deposits) and an additional $62.5 million in unused liquidity. Unused liquidity comprised Fed Funds sold, usable cash at corrpespondent banks, unpledged available for sale and trading securities and available advances at the FHLB. Our liquidity would be negatively affected if we no longer had access to these funds. Actions by the FHLB, or limitations on our available collateral, or adverse regulatory action against us may reduce or eliminate our borrowing capacity or may limit our ability to continue to attract deposits at competitive rates. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Future regulatory actions may adversely impact our ability to raise funds through deposits. In particular, there is currently no restriction on our ability to acquire deposits through deposit brokers or on the rates we may offer on deposits to attract customers. If our capital position were to deteriorate, or other circumstances were to occur, such that we become classified as an “adequately capitalized” institution (or in any lower regulatory capital category), we could be prohibited from acquiring funds through deposit brokers and from paying rates on deposits that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on deposits offered by insured depository institutions in our normal market area. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial 9 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Additional capital, if needed, may not be available to us, or, if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. If additional capital is unavailable, when needed, or is not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely effect our operations. We continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive officers and other senior managers and commercial lenders. The loss of services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Additionally, our future success and growth will depend upon our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees with strong community relationships and specialized knowledge in the financial services industry. The level of competition in our industry for people with these skills is intense, and our inability to successfully recruit qualified people and retain them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have key man life insurance in the form of Bank Owned Life Insurance on selected executive officers, but this insurance is only applicable on the death of one or more of these individuals. Our future success in dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banks and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits than we do. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or stockholders. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. We continually encounter technological changes, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy 10 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many national vendors provide turn-key services to community banks, such as internet banking and remote deposit capture, which allow smaller banks to compete with competitors that have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We, however, may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Michigan laws contain certain provisions that could make a takeover more difficult. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws, and the laws of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in the best interest of the Corporation and our stockholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect stockholders and prohibit or discourage certain types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, Federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board’s approval prior to acquisition of “control” of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the Company level without action by our stockholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and contract. We are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by Community Central Bank, our wholly owned subsidiary. Our ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders depends primarily on available cash resources at the Company level and dividends from the Bank. Dividend payments or extensions of credit from the Bank are subject to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. We are also prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. The Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us in the future. In November 2008, we announced a temporary suspension of the Company’s quarterly cash dividend payable to stockholders. This action was taken to preserve capital in order to leverage it into financing for local businesses. Our Board of Directors also adopted a voluntary resolution at the urging of the Federal Reserve Board, our primary federal regulator, requiring the filing of prior notice with and non-objection by the Federal Reserve Board with respect to the payment of any dividends on our common stock or preferred stock, including the Preferred Stock. No assurances can be given that any dividends will be paid in the future or, if paid, the amount or frequency of any dividends. There is a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “CCBD.” The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such a market will continue, or that our stockholders will be able to sell their shares at or above the offering price. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of the Company. The issuance of new shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock also may affect the market for our common stock. 11 Table of Contents COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 