Item 1A. Risk Factors The cautionary statements set forth below, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other SEC filings, discuss important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. We may need additional capital in the future, which might not be available. Our business is capital intensive and requires annual expenditures for additional surgical products. Should we need or otherwise decide to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or otherwise support our operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Failure to comply with certain covenants in our credit facility could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had $12.2 million outstanding and $7.8 million available for borrowings under our credit facility with bank (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility contains operating and financial restrictions and covenants. These place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur more debt, make loans and investments, encumber our assets, enter into a new business, or enter into certain merger, consolidation, or liquidation transactions. In addition, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including: (i) a minimum tangible net worth requirement, (ii) until May 31, 2009, a minimum annual EBITDA requirement, and (iii) beginning June 30, 2009, a fixed charge coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all our covenants under the Credit Facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants and financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in the Credit Facility could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of any default under the Credit Facility, we may be restricted from accessing our revolving credit line and the payment of all outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility could be accelerated, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other foreign governments and tighter availability of credit. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance operations or obtain credit from creditors were to be impaired. 7 Table of Contents Bank of America, N.A. is our lender under the Credit Facility. If Bank of America is adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, it may become unable to fund borrowings under its credit commitments to us or otherwise fulfill its obligations under the Credit Facility, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Our future growth is dependent on the sales process and market acceptance of our products and services. Our future performance depends on our ability to maintain and increase revenues from new and existing customers. Our sales process to acquire new customers is typically extended in duration, because of industry factors such as the approval process in hospitals for purchases from new suppliers, the duration of existing supply contracts, and implementation delays pending termination of a hospital’s previous supply relationships. Our future performance also depends on the market accepting our product and service offerings, which emphasize the supply of reusable surgical products to a market that predominantly uses disposable products. We are also regularly developing new instrument processing programs. We are subject to a risk that the market will not broadly accept these product offerings, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. The Supply and Co-Marketing Agreement with Cardinal may not be successful. We signed a five-year Co-Marketing Agreement with an affiliate of Cardinal Health, Inc. See “Item 1. Business – The Company”. The Co-Marketing Agreement appoints Cardinal as our exclusive supplier of disposable products and provides for co-marketing of an environmentally friendly healthcare solution, the Hybrid Preference PackTM, a reusable and disposable products pack. The Co-Marketing Agreement requires us to make additional investments in personnel, equipment and programs. If our Hybrid Preference PackTM initiative is not accepted by the marketplace, it would materially and adversely affect us. We rely on key suppliers. We rely on Aesculap as our major source of supply of instruments for our instrument processing programs. Any failure of Aesculap to furnish instruments for any reason could materially and adversely affect our ability to service these programs until we secured one or more alternative suppliers. We had a procurement agreement with Standard Textile as our supply source for our reusable surgical products through August 2008. We are currently working with Standard Textile on a month-to-month basis until a new agreement can be reached. If Standard Textile were unable to perform or if we are unable to reach an agreement with Standard Textile or another supplier on favorable terms, we would be materially and adversely affected. In November 2008, we entered into a Co-Marketing Agreement with Cardinal. The Co-Marketing Agreement appoints Cardinal the exclusive supplier of disposable products for our customers. As a result of the Co-Marketing Agreement, we agreed to close our disposable products assembly facility. If the agreement does not provide the results we expect under its terms, we would be materially and adversely affected. The loss of a significant customer or purchasing organization could adversely affect our operating results. During the year ended December 31, 2008, hospitals belonging to three group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), Novation, LLC, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P. and MedAssets, Inc. accounted for approximately 65% of our sales. One customer, a healthcare provider, accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues in 2008. Our business with these GPOs is pursuant to short-term agreements, which are subject to renewal from time to time through competitive processes. Although each GPO member hospital currently makes its purchasing decisions on an individual basis, the loss of a substantial portion of the GPO hospitals’ business would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include a number of distributors and manufacturers, as well as the in-house reprocessing operations of hospitals. Certain of our existing and potential competitors possess substantially greater resources than we possess. Some of our competitors, including Allegiance Corporation (a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc.) and Medline Industries, Inc., serve as the sole supplier of a wide assortment of products to a significant number of hospitals. While we have a substantial array of surgical products, many of our 8 Table of Contents competitors have a greater number of products for the entire hospital, which in some instances is a competitive disadvantage for us. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. See “Item 1. Business—Competition.” The loss of key executives and employees could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the contributions of executives and key employees. The loss of executives and certain key employees in sales, operations and marketing could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to penetrate our markets, operate efficiently, and develop and sell new products and services. We also believe our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. Our ability to effectively grow depends on our ability to improve our operational systems. We have expanded our operations since inception and may continue to expand to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management, financial and operational resources. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and continue to invest in the operational infrastructure of our business. Our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims. The use of medical devices such as surgical instruments entails an inherent risk of product liability or other claims initiated by patients or hospitals. Any of those claims in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in federal or state regulations could materially adversely affect us. Significant aspects of our business are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing, among other things, medical waste-disposal and workplace health and safety. In addition, most of the products furnished or sold by us are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, as well as by other federal, state and local agencies. Our facilities are subject to quality systems inspections by FDA officials. The FDA has the power to enjoin future violations, seize adulterated or misbranded devices, and require the manufacturer to remove products from the market, and publicize relevant facts. Federal, state or local governments might impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could materially adversely affect us. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 