ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information provided in the Stockholder Report on Form 10-K. 5 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) CHANGES IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR INTEREST RATES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS, CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all our loans are to businesses and individuals in southeastern Michigan and any decline in the economy of this area could adversely affect us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. OUR CREDIT LOSSES COULD INCREASE AND OUR ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ACTUAL LOAN LOSSES. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have a material adverse affect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for credit and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, thereby having an adverse effect on our operations results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot now be determined and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for credit losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or to recognize further loan or lease charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for credit losses could have a negative effect on our net income, financial condition and results of operations. A DOWNTURN IN THE REAL ESTATE MARKET COULD HURT OUR BUSINESS. A downturn in the real estate market could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 90.0% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Michigan. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in Michigan, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. OUR COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS INVOLVE HIGHER PRINCIPAL AMOUNTS THAN OTHER LOANS, AND REPAYMENT OF THESE LOANS MAY BE DEPENDENT ON FACTORS OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL OR THE CONTROL OF OUR BORROWERS. As part of our operating strategy, we intend to continue to focus on our commercial real estate lending. At December 31, 2006, commercial real estate loans totaled $236.4 million, or 64.4%, of our total loan portfolio. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. These loans may therefore be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many commercial real estate loans are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or completing a timely sale of the underlying property. REPAYMENT OF OUR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS IS OFTEN DEPENDENT ON THE CASH FLOWS OF THE BORROWER, WHICH MAY BE UNPREDICTABLE, AND THE COLLATERAL SECURING THESE LOANS MAY FLUCTUATE IN VALUE. At December 31, 2006, commercial and industrial loans totaled $28.4 million, or 7.8%, of our total loan portfolio. We make these loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, contracts receivable, equipment or real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the 6 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts and contracts receivables, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. OUR CONSUMER LOANS GENERALLY HAVE A HIGHER RISK OF DEFAULT THAN OUR OTHER LOANS. Consumer loans entail greater risk than our other loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy, all of which increase when the economy is weak. Furthermore, the application of various Federal and state laws, including Federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. DECLINE IN THE AVAILABILITY OF OUT-OF-AREA DEPOSITS COULD CAUSE LIQUIDITY OR INTEREST RATE MARGIN CONCERNS, OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH. We have utilized and expect to continue to utilize out-of-area or wholesale deposits to support our asset growth. These deposits are generally a lower cost source of funds when compared to the interest rates that we would have to offer in our local markets to generate a commensurate level of funds. In addition, the overhead costs associated with wholesale deposits are considerably less than the overhead costs we would incur to obtain and administer a similar level of local deposits. A decline in the availability of these whole deposits would require us to fund our growth with more costly funding sources, which could reduce our net interest margin, limit our growth, reduce our asset size, or increase our overhead costs. ACQUISITIONS ARE AN INTENDED COMPONENT OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY. WE MAY ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES IN PURSUING THIS STRATEGY, AND TO THE EXTENT THAT WE ACQUIRE COMPANIES IN THE FUTURE, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY RISKS RELATED TO THOSE ACQUISITIONS. We have completed acquisitions of banking assets over the past couple of years and will consider the acquisition of other banking and related businesses in the future. Our ability to successfully pursue this strategy may have a direct bearing on our ability to grow our franchise and achieve and maintain our levels of profitability. There are risks associated with this strategy including the following: - Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. In addition, the number of potential acquirors can result in intense competition, particularly with respect to price. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable, and we expect that this condition will occur periodically in the future; - We may borrow funds to finance an acquisition, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity; - There are numerous risks involved in each acquisition that we make, including: - the risk that the acquired business will not perform according to management's expectations; - the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with our operations, including disruptions to customers of the acquired business; - the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; 7 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) - the risk that we may lose key employees of the acquired business; - the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; and - the risks of the acquired company that we may assume in connection with the acquisition, including potential asset quality issues and/or unknown or contingent liabilities that may exceed our estimates. As a result of these risks, any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, because the consideration for an acquisition may include shares of our common stock, existing holders of our common stock could experience dilution in connection with the acquisition. Depending on the acquisition price and the number of shares issued, this dilution could be significant. OUR CONTINUED PACE OF GROWTH MAY REQUIRE US TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, BUT THAT CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE WHEN IT IS NEEDED. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may, at some point, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IN DEPENDENT ON OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE BANKING INDUSTRY. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southeast Michigan. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits than we do. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATION, AND ANY REGULATORY CHANGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or shareholders. As a bank holding company, we are also subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory organizations. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions is conditioned upon the receipt of the required regulatory approvals from these organizations. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. 8 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) WE CONTINUALLY ENCOUNTER TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, AND WE MAY HAVE FEWER RESOURCES THAN OUR COMPETITORS TO CONTINUE TO INVEST IN TECHNOLOGICAL IMPROVEMENTS. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Corporation's future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS AND MICHIGAN LAWS CONTAIN CERTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD MAKE A TAKEOVER MORE DIFFICULT. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a change in control or takeover attempt tht our board of directors opposes. As a result, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. These provisions include: staggered three year terms for the election of directors; provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of stockholders; the absence of cumulative voting by stockholders in election of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations; and the authorization of 1,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock that could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage certain types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, Federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board's approval prior to acquisition of "control" of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS IS LIMITED BY LAW AND CONTRACT. We are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by our bank. Our ability to continue to make dividend payments to our shareholders will depend primarily on available cash resources at the holding company and dividends from our bank. Dividend payments or extensions of credit from our bank are subject to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by regulatory agencies with authority over our bank. The ability of our bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. We are also prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. We cannot assure you that our bank will be able to pay dividends to us in the future. We have paid stock dividends as well as cash dividends on our common stock. While we expect to continue paying stock and cash dividends, there is no assurance that we will continue to do so. THERE IS A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of our company. The issuance of new shares of our common stock also may affect the market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "CCBD." The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of wiling buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no 9 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) assurance that such a market price will continue, or that our shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or above the offering price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 