ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to various operational and financial risks that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition the general economic risks associated with operation of a small company in a regulated industry dominated by large well-financed competitors, some of the risk factors that may apply specifically to us are set forth below. Our results of operations fluctuate from period to period. Our revenue and results of operations have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors over which we have no control, including: · Many of our customers are not obligated to route a minimum amount of traffic over our system and the amount of traffic we handle may decline if our customers elect to route traffic over systems they operate or systems operated by other providers; 11 · increased competition from other telecommunication service providers or from service companies in related fields that offer telecommunication services may adversely affect the amount we can charge for traffic routed over our system; · we may be required to reduce our charges for routing traffic to maintain high utilization of our equipment; · the termination fees, connection fees and other charges from our suppliers; · fraudulently sent or received traffic for which we are obligated to pay but which we are unable to bill to any customer; · changes in call volume among the countries to which we complete calls; · technical difficulties or failures of our network systems or third party delays in expansion or provisioning system components; and · our ability to manage our traffic on a constant basis so that routes are profitable. We rely on third parties to provide and maintain the networks over which we transmit traffic. Our business model depends on the availability of the Internet and traditional telephone networks to transmit voice and data. Third parties own and maintain the equipment that translates calls from traditional voice networks to the Internet and vice versa. If the owners of these systems fail to maintain their lines properly, fail to maintain the ability to terminate calls, or otherwise disrupt our ability to provide service to our customers, our ability to complete calls or provide other services could be interrupted. Our suppliers could increase the cost of services they provide or deny us access to systems that they operate. We maintain relationships with communications service providers in many countries and with other carriers to carry traffic on their systems. There is no assurance that these services will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to replace any provider that ceases to provide services to us on acceptable terms, or to identify and develop relationships with new service providers, our ability to provide services in certain countries may be adversely affected. We are subject to downward pricing pressures and a continuing need to renegotiate overseas rates. As a result of numerous factors, including increased competition and global deregulation of telecommunications services, prices for international long distance calls have been decreasing. This downward trend of prices to end-users has caused us to lower the prices we charge communication service providers for call completion on our network. If this downward pricing pressure continues, we may not be able to offer VoIP services at costs lower than, or competitive with, the traditional voice network services with which we compete. Moreover, in order for us to lower our prices, we have to renegotiate rates with our foreign service providers who complete calls for us. We may not be able to renegotiate these terms favorably enough, or fast enough, to allow us to continue to offer services in a particular country on a cost-effective basis. The continued downward pressure on prices and our inability to renegotiate favorable terms in a particular country could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our network. We are subject to risks relating to operations in foreign countries. Because we provide many of our services internationally, we are subject to additional risks related to providing services into foreign countries. Associated risks include: · unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements relating to Internet access or VoIP; · economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; · difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · tax, consumer protection, telecommunications, and other laws; · foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; and · unreliable government power to protect our rights; 12 International governmental regulation and legal uncertainties and other laws could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive, or subject us to legal liability. Many countries currently prohibit or limit competition in the provision of traditional voice telephony services. In some of those countries, licensed telephony carriers as well as government regulators and law enforcement authorities have questioned the legal authority of VoIP services. Our failure to qualify as a properly licensed service provider, or to comply with other foreign laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. It is also possible that countries may apply to our activities laws relating to services provided over the Internet, including laws governing: · user privacy; · pricing controls and termination costs; · characteristics and quality of products and services; · qualification to do business; · consumer protection; · cross-border commerce, including laws that would impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions; · copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and · claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials, including defamation, negligence and the failure to meet necessary obligations. If foreign governments or other bodies begin to impose related restrictions on VoIP or our other services or otherwise enforce other laws against us or our foreign suppliers, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are not able to keep up with rapid technological change in a cost-effective way, the relative quality of our services could suffer. The technology upon which our services depend is changing rapidly. Significant technological changes could render the hardware and software that we use obsolete, and competitors may begin to offer new services that we are unable to offer. If we are unable to respond successfully to these developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, we may not be able to offer competitive services and our business results may suffer. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our network adequately and cost-effectively to accommodate any future growth. Our VoIP business requires that we handle a large number of international calls simultaneously. As we expand our operations, we expect to handle significantly more calls. If we do not expand and upgrade our hardware and software quickly enough, we will not have sufficient capacity to handle the increased traffic and growth in our operating performance would suffer as a result. Even with such expansion, we may be unable to manage new deployments or utilize them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to lost growth opportunities, any such failure could adversely affect customer confidence in our network and services. Single points of failure on our network may make our business vulnerable. We operate one network control center in San Antonio, Texas. We have not yet designed a redundant system, provided for excess capacity, or taken other precautions against platform and network failures as well as facility failures relating to power, air conditioning, destruction, or theft. We are vulnerable to a network failure that may prohibit us from offering services. We depend on our current personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining the skilled employees we need to execute our business plan. Our future success will depend, in large part, on the continued service of our key management and technical personnel. If any of these individuals or others we employ are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If the Internet infrastructure is not adequately maintained, we may be unable to maintain the quality of our services and provide them in a timely and consistent manner. Our future success will depend upon the maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, including a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliability and timely Internet access and services. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it and its performance or reliability may decline thereby impairing our ability to complete calls and provide other services using the Internet at consistently high quality. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of failures of portions of its infrastructure or otherwise. Future outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to complete calls and provide other services. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, including security, cost, ease of use and access, intellectual property ownership and other legal liability issues, remain unresolved and could materially and adversely affect both the growth of Internet usage generally and our business in particular. Finally, important opportunities to increase traffic on our network will not be realized if the underlying infrastructure of the Internet does not continue to be expanded to more locations worldwide. 13 Vulnerability of the Internet to malicious activity. The Internet, and certain components thereof, is susceptible to malicious damage or destruction by the creation and distribution of software designed to interrupt of corrupt the transmission of data, by concerted efforts to cause congestion, and other malicious activities. If such activities are successful in interrupting the transmission of data between our network and the destination of the transmission, it could have an adverse effect on client confidence in our ability to maintain a stable and reliable network. Since we do not control access to the servers, gateways, and other components of the Internet that are used to transmit traffic, we are not able to protect such components from attack. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable ITEM 