Item 1A. Risk Factors The cautionary statements set forth below, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other SEC filings, discuss important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. We may need additional capital in the future, which might not be available. Our business is capital intensive and requires annual expenditures for additional surgical products. Should we need or otherwise decide to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, or otherwise support our operations. We are party to a credit facility (“the Credit Facility”) with Bank of America, N.A., which requires us to maintain minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio covenants. As of December 31, 2011, we were not in compliance with the required fixed charge coverage ratio under the Credit Facility. Our lender waived this default, only through February 29, 2012, and we anticipate being in default under this covenant following our 2012 first quarter. There is no assurance that our lender will waive this or other defaults. A default under the Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We cannot predict the effect that health care reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“Health Care Reform Legislation”) was signed into law. In general, the Health Care Reform Legislation seeks to reduce health care costs and decrease over time the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents, by among other things, requiring employers to offer, and individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact of the Health Care Reform Legislation due to its complexity and lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, as well as our inability to foresee the law’s impact on our customers. Implementation of the Health Care Reform Legislation could ultimately have a material adverse affect on us. Our future growth is dependent on the sales process and market acceptance of our products and services. Our future performance depends on our ability to maintain and increase revenues from new and existing customers. Our sales process to acquire new customers is typically extended in duration, because of industry factors such as the approval process in hospitals for purchases from new suppliers, the duration of existing supply contracts, and implementation delays pending termination of a hospital’s previous supply relationships. Our future performance also depends on the market accepting our product and service offerings, which emphasize the supply of reusable surgical products to a market that predominantly uses disposable products. We are also regularly developing new instrument processing programs. We are subject to a risk that the market will not broadly accept these product offerings, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We rely on key suppliers. We rely on Aesculap as our major source of supply of instruments for our instrument processing programs. Any failure of Aesculap to furnish instruments for any reason could materially and adversely affect our ability to service these programs until we secure one or more alternative suppliers. As disclosed under Item 1. “Business – Products,” Gore, our supplier of the barrier fabric that we use in our Level III and Level IV surgical gowns and our Level IV drapes, notified us that it is exiting the medical fabrics market. We are making significant advance purchases of fabric to bridge the process of transitioning to another supplier. We are currently in the process of identifying, evaluating, and engaging new suppliers. Any failure by us to make adequate advance purchases of barrier fabric from Gore or to engage a new supplier of barrier fabric 8 Table of Contents that meets our requirements in a timely manner could materially adversely affect us. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop a replacement product in a timely manner. If we were unable to develop a replacement product, this would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In November 2008, we entered into a Co-Marketing Agreement with Cardinal. The Co-Marketing Agreement appoints Cardinal the exclusive supplier of disposable products for our customers. If this arrangement does not provide the results that we expect, we could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to fluctuations in the availability and cost of commodity items used in our products and distribution network. We depend on various component raw materials supplied by others for our operations and certain products we offer our customers. Our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters or other events or could be terminated. A sustained interruption in the flow of adequate supplies, or a shortage of a particular item, could have an adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to manage price fluctuations in commodity type items. Additionally, our distribution network uses diesel fuel. Oil and gas prices remain volatile and have fluctuated significantly in recent years, causing our costs to distribute our products to fluctuate. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and many of our customers have cost-containment initiatives, so we might not be able to pass along cost increases through higher prices or fuel surcharges. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or fuel surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We might also be adversely affected by increases in the cost of cotton, which is a component of our towels. The loss of a significant customer or purchasing organization could adversely affect our operating results. During the year ended December 31, 2011, hospitals belonging to three group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), Novation, LLC, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P. and MedAssets, Inc. accounted for approximately 58% of our sales. No single healthcare provider accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2011. Our business with these GPOs is pursuant to agreements (typically three (3) year terms), which are subject to renewal from time to time through competitive processes. Although each GPO member hospital makes its purchasing decisions on an individual basis, the loss of a substantial portion of a GPO hospitals’ business would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include a number of distributors and manufacturers, as well as the in-house reprocessing operations of hospitals. Certain of our existing and potential competitors possess substantially greater resources than we possess. Some of our competitors, including Cardinal Converters (a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc.) and Medline Industries, Inc., serve as the sole supplier of a wide assortment of products to a significant number of hospitals. While we have a substantial array of surgical products, many of our competitors have a greater number of products for the entire hospital, which in some instances is a competitive disadvantage for us. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. See “Item 1. Business – Competition.” The loss of key executives and employees could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the contributions of executives and key employees. The loss of executives and certain key employees in sales, operations and marketing could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to penetrate our markets, operate efficiently, and develop and sell new products and services. We also believe our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. Our ability to effectively grow depends on our ability to improve our operational systems. We have expanded our operations since inception and may continue to expand to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management, financial and operational resources. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and continue to invest in the operational infrastructure of our business. 9 Table of Contents Our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims. The use of medical devices such as surgical instruments entails an inherent risk of product liability or other claims initiated by patients or hospitals. Any of those claims in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur significant costs related to self-insurance retention levels under our employee benefits and workers’ compensation programs. We retain a liability up to $110,000 annually for each medical insurance plan member up to an estimated annual aggregate liability limit of $3.1 million. We are insured for aggregate claims of $1.0 million in excess of this amount, and retain liability for additional excess claims. Also, we retain the first $250,000 of each workers’ compensation claim incurred. If the number of claims or their severity increases, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. (See “Critical Accounting Policies” for additional information) Changes in federal or state regulations could materially adversely affect us. Significant aspects of our business are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing, among other things, medical waste-disposal and workplace health and safety. In addition, most of the products furnished or sold by us are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, as well as by other federal, state and local agencies. Our facilities are subject to quality systems inspections by FDA officials. The FDA has the power to enjoin future violations, seize adulterated or misbranded devices, and require the manufacturer to remove products from the market, and publicize relevant facts. Federal, state or local governments might impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could materially adversely affect us. (See “Item 1. Business – Regulation.”) Failure to maintain adequate internal systems and effective internal controls over financial reporting and information systems could adversely affect us. Adequate internal systems and an effective system of internal controls are necessary to ensure proper financial reporting and disclosure. A significant deficiency or material weakness in our system of internal controls, as defined under the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board guidelines, could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and related disclosures. We adopted a rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. On November 10, 2010, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan to better assure that we can evaluate and respond to a disclosed indication of interest. The plan could discourage, delay, or prevent a hostile third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us, even if our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. The effects and results of our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives are uncertain. On September 14, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors initiated a process to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives for the Company, which may include a full or partial sale, merger, or equity investment. There can be no assurance that this process will lead to a transaction. In addition, this process may distract the attention of our Board of Directors and management from our business, cause us to incur significant expenses pursuing one or more transactions unsuccessfully, or impair our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our stock price has fluctuated and might continue to be volatile. During the 12-month period ended December 31, 2011, the sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market System ranged from $2.65 to $6.50. The closing price of our common stock on February 24, 2012 was $3.90. Our common stock price might continue to be volatile in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 10 Table of Contents 