Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business We expect to incur future operating losses and may not achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and we expect to incur an operating loss in 2010. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $310.6 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development and product marketing and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. These costs have exceeded our cumulative cash proceeds which, to date, have been generated principally from product sales, collaborative research and development agreements, technology access fees, license fees, litigation settlement proceeds and interest income on cash and investment balances. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue than we have to date, while achieving reasonable costs and expense levels. We may not be able to generate enough revenue to achieve profitability. We may not achieve or maintain reasonable costs and expense levels. Even if we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our LabChip products may not achieve widespread market acceptance, which could cause our revenue to grow slowly or decline and make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. The commercial success of our LabChip products depends upon market acceptance of the merits of our drug discovery and automated electrophoresis separations systems by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research centers and other companies that rely upon laboratory experimentation. Although our microfluidic drug discovery and automated electrophoresis systems have been marketed and sold commercially for over ten years, their accuracy, reliability, ease-of-use and commercial value have not yet gained widespread commercial acceptance. During 2008, we introduced a wholly redesigned automated electrophoresis separations system, the LabChip GX and LabChip GXII. Although the market reaction to our new LabChip GX systems during 2009 was positive, if these systems do not continue to gain further market acceptance, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. Our strategy for our microfluidic-based screening products, such as the EZ Reader, and LabChip GX systems, depends upon the early users of these systems buying additional units as they spread the adoption of this technology throughout their organizations worldwide. New customers for our LabChip GX systems may wait for indications from these early users that our drug discovery and automated electrophoresis separations systems work effectively and generate substantial benefits. If the early users of our EZ Reader and LabChip GX instrument systems do not endorse the further adoption of these systems because they fail to generate the expected quantities and quality of data, are too difficult or costly to use, or are otherwise deficient in meeting the needs of these customers, further sales of these systems to these early users may be limited, and sales to new users will be more difficult. For all of the foregoing reasons, we cannot assure you that our efforts to increase the adoption of our LabChip-based drug screening and automated electrophoresis systems, by both existing and new users, will be expeditious or effective. In summary, market acceptance of our LabChip systems will depend on many factors, including: •our ability to demonstrate the advantages and potential economic value of our LabChip drug discovery and automated electrophoresis separations systems over alternative, well-established technologies; 23 Table of Contents •our ability to penetrate new markets, such as next-gen sequencing laboratories and protein fermentation facilities, with our LabChip GX and GX II automated electrophoresis separations systems; •our ability to develop a broader range of standard assays and applications that enable customers and potential customers to perform many different types of experiments on a single LabChip instrument system; •our ability to develop new LabChip instrument systems designed for new applications; and •our ability to penetrate the market for secondary kinase screening with our EZ Reader systems and ProfilerPro reaction ready plates. If our in vivo optical imaging products and services do not become more widely used by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life sciences researchers, our revenue will grow more slowly than expected or decline and make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. The commercial success of all of our IVIS imaging systems will depend upon the continuing adoption of our technology as a preferred method to perform in vivo biological assessment. Such continuing adoption depends upon these products meeting the technical and cost requirements for in vivo biological assessment within the life sciences industry. Widespread market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: •the willingness and ability of researchers and prospective customers to adopt a relatively new technology; •our ability to convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other methods of in vivo biological assessment; and •creating a belief on the part of our customers that our products can accelerate timelines and reduce costs in drug development. We cannot assure you that our IVIS imaging systems will achieve widespread market acceptance in a timely manner or at all, or to a degree that will allow our business to achieve success. Failure to maintain our credit facility borrowing base, raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and result in lower revenue. We anticipate that our existing capital resources, including amounts available under our credit facility, together with the revenue to be derived from our commercial partners and licensees and from commercial sales of our products and services, will enable us to maintain currently planned operations through at least March 31, 2011. However, this expectation is based on our current operating plan, and our ability to maintain our borrowing base and remain in compliance with various covenants of our bank credit facility, which may change as a result of many factors, including conditions in the market for our products and services as well as the prospect of future acquisitions or other investing activities that could require substantial additional financing. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. The virtually unprecedented turmoil in the world's financial markets, which began in 2008 and continued through 2009, may make it difficult or impossible for us to raise additional capital. Our inability to raise needed capital would seriously harm our business and product development efforts. Alternatively, in the event that we are able to do so, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents In addition, to the extent that operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. Failure to remain in compliance with the covenants included in our revolving credit facility could interfere with or prevent our ability to obtain additional advances under this credit facility. On December 11, 2009, we entered into a First Loan Modification Agreement with a bank, amending our credit facility, which is reflected by the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement dated as of March 6, 2009. We utilize the credit facility as a source of capital for ongoing operations and working capital needs. The principal effect of this modification was to extend the maturity date of the credit facility from November 30, 2010 to April 1, 2011. The modification also established financial covenants for us for the quarter ending March 31, 2011, as well as modified certain of the existing financial reporting covenants that are tested as of the last day of each quarter. The Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The credit facility with the bank permits us to borrow up to $25 million in the form of revolving loan advances, including up to $5 million in the form of letters of credit. Principal borrowings under the credit facility accrue interest at a floating annual rate equal to the prime rate plus one percent if our unrestricted cash held at the bank exceeds or is equal to $20 million, or prime plus two percent if our unrestricted cash held at the bank is below $20 million. Under the credit facility, we are permitted to borrow up to $25 million, subject to a borrowing base limit consisting of (a) 80% of Eligible Accounts Receivable, as defined in the credit facility, plus (b) the lesser of 70% of our unrestricted cash at the bank or $12 million; provided, that on each of the first three business days and each of the last three business days of each fiscal quarter, the borrowing base is (a) 80% of eligible accounts receivable, as defined, plus (b) the lesser of 90% of our unrestricted cash at SVB or $12 million. The credit facility contains traditional lending and reporting covenants through the maturity date, including certain financial covenants applicable to Caliper's liquidity and earnings that are tested as of the last day of each quarter. The credit facility includes rights for the bank to accelerate the maturity of the debt, lower the borrowing base or stop making advances, if the bank determines, based upon its good faith business judgment, that events or conditions may adversely affect the value of the collateral securing the credit facility or our ability to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility also includes several potential events of default such as payment default, material adverse change conditions and insolvency conditions that could cause interest to be charged at the interest rate in effect as of the date of default plus two percentage points, or in the event of any uncured events of default (including non-compliance with liquidity and earnings financial covenants), could result in the bank's right to declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable. Our ability to remain in compliance with applicable loan covenants through the credit facility's maturity in April 2011 depends upon our ability to achieve results that are materially consistent with our internal operating plans. If a material adverse change occurs within our business, or we fail to achieve our anticipated operating results, we may become in default of one or more covenants under the credit facility, which would require us to ask the bank to waive the covenants and these waivers may or may not be granted. If such events were to occur, we have no alternative committed sources of capital. 25 Table of Contents We receive significant revenue from out-licensing our patent estates for microfluidic technology and in vivo optical imaging methods, and may not be able to replace such revenue upon the expiration of those patents. We own or exclusively in-license a number of patents for which we have received significant revenue by out-licensing such patents to third parties, including the patents for in vivo optical imaging methods that we exclusively in-license from Stanford University mentioned above, as well as patents in our extensive microfluidics technology patent estate. Certain of these patents will begin to expire in the next four- to eight-year period, and our revenue growth rate will be adversely impacted by the loss of license revenue as these patents expire, especially if we are not be able to develop new products or new technologies for out-licensing that can be used to offset the decline in license revenue due to the expiration of our existing patents. We receive significant licensing revenue from commercial users of our patented in vivo optical imaging methods, and our ability to continue to receive this licensing revenue in the future will depend upon our ability to convince commercial users of the value of our patented imaging methods and our ability to enforce and defend the validity of such patents. We exclusively in-license from Stanford University a portfolio of patents covering a broad range of methods for in vivo, noninvasive imaging of light generated from within mammals, which portfolio of patents include U.S. Patent No. 5,650,135 and a number of other patents that issued from continuation applications relating to the '135 patent. The patents in this portfolio cover broad methods of in vivo imaging of generated light. We actively out-license these patents to entities performing preclinical drug discovery and development research. These licenses, in the case of commercial entities, require the payment of fees in order to perform the patented imaging methods. Our ability to maintain and increase the revenue we obtain from this licensing program will depend upon our continuing ability to convince researchers of the value of these patented imaging methods, as well as our ability to successfully defend the validity of the patents in this portfolio. It is possible that entities will seek to invalidate one or more patents included in this portfolio, either through litigation or through a reexamination process with the USPTO to challenge the patentability of the patent claims. For example, in November 2007 VisEn Medical filed a request with the USPTO for an inter partes reexamination of U.S. Patent No. 7,255,851. In January 2008, the USPTO granted VisEn's request for a reexamination of the '851 patent, and in February 2009 the USPTO issued an "Action Closing Prosecution" which rejected the claims of the '851 patent. The rejected claims of the '851 patent were substantially different from the claims in the remaining patents in the '135 patent family. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of the other patents included in our in vivo imaging patent portfolio could be held to be invalid, or the scope of their claim coverage could be a narrowed through similar legal action taken by other competitors. If this occurs, our revenue from out-licensing this portfolio may decline. Because we receive revenue principally from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and biomedical research institutions, the current economic conditions faced by and regulatory requirements imposed upon those companies and institutions, as well as their capital spending policies, may have a significant effect on the demand for our products. We market our products to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and to academic and other biomedical research institutions, and the changes to capital spending policies of these entities could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies vary significantly among different customers and are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available for purchasing research equipment, the spending priorities among various types of research companies and the policies regarding capital expenditures. In particular, economic conditions and regulatory requirements faced by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have at certain times directly affected their capital spending budgets. In addition, continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical 26 Table of Contents industry, including the cost reductions often implemented during such consolidations, will likely delay and may potentially reduce capital spending by pharmaceutical companies involved in such consolidations. During the past several years, many of our customers and potential customers, particularly in the biopharmaceutical industry, have reduced their capital spending budgets because of generally adverse prevailing economic conditions, consolidation in the industry and increased pressure on the profitability of such companies, due in part to competition from generic drugs. If our customers and potential customers do not increase their capital spending budgets, because of continuing adverse economic conditions or further consolidation in the industry, we could face weak demand for our products. Similarly, a decrease in the availability of grant money, as well as reductions in the value of university endowments due to recent significant worldwide declines in the value of financial and real estate assets, may impact our sales to academic customers. Developments involving safety issues for widely used drugs, including actual and/or threatened litigation, also may affect capital spending by pharmaceutical companies. Any decrease or delay in capital spending by life sciences or chemical companies or biomedical researchers could cause our revenue to decline and harm our profitability. In addition, consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry may not only affect demand for our products, but also existing business relationships. For example, if two or more of our present or future optical imaging customers merge, we may not receive the same aggregate amount of fees under one license agreement with the combined entity that we received under separate license agreements with these customers prior to their combination. Moreover, if one of our optical imaging customers merges with an entity that is not such a customer, the new combined entity may seek to terminate or not renew our license agreement. Any of these developments could cause our revenue to decline, or to grow more slowly than we anticipate. Our future revenue is unpredictable and could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Our operating results have been historically strongest in the fourth quarter due to customer budget cycles and are also influenced in the second and fourth quarters by academic grant funding cycles. The sale of many of our products typically involves a scientific evaluation and commitment of capital by customers. Accordingly, the initial sales cycles of many of our products are lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks that are beyond our control, including customers' budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews. As a result of this lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed. Historically, customer buying patterns and our revenue growth have caused a substantial portion of our revenues to occur in the last month of the quarter. Delays in the receipt of orders, our recognition of product or service revenue, or manufacturing delays near the end of the quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall short of anticipated levels. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, lower than anticipated revenues for a quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Accordingly, if our revenue declines or does not increase as we anticipate, we might not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in a timely enough manner to avoid incurring additional losses. Our failure to achieve our anticipated level of revenue could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. The following are some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: •changes in the demand for, and increased pricing for, our products and services; 27 Table of Contents •lengthy sales cycles and buying patterns of our customers, which may cause a decrease in our operating results for a quarterly period; •termination, non-renewal, or changes in the terms of our renewable contracts, including licenses; •our ability to find new partners to out-license our microfluidics intellectual property technology under our Caliper Driven licensing program, which license agreements generally include substantial upfront fees as well as future royalties based on sales of licensed products; •our ability to obtain key components for products and manufacture and install them on a timely basis to meet demand; •decreases in the research and development budgets of our customers; •commercial customer resistance to paying technology licensing fees in conjunction with future IVIS imaging system purchases; •acquisition, licensing and other costs related to the expansion of our product portfolio; •expenses related to patent infringement litigation and defense of our patents; and •expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter to quarter or annual comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the U.S. and other countries. However, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of adequate rules and methods for defending and enforcing intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing tools for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and biomedical industries generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, particularly as to questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We own, or control through exclusive licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. 28 Table of Contents We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, customers and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, customers or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques. We have previously been and are currently involved in patent litigation. In connection with this litigation, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated. We may need to initiate other lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights. Patent litigation tends to be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete in the market and may cause our stock price to decline. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent infringement litigation against third parties. For example, in January 2009 we initiated litigation against Shimadzu Corporation and its U.S. subsidiary alleging that Shimadzu's importing, marketing and selling of its MCE-202 MultiNA microchip electrophoresis system infringes 11 different U.S. patents owned by us, and in February 2010, we and Stanford University filed a complaint against Carestream Health, Inc. seeking a finding of willful infringement against Carestream based on Carestream's ongoing and unauthorized use of a number of U.S. patents that we exclusively license from Stanford University. Patent infringement lawsuits tend to be expensive, take significant time and can divert management's attention from other business concerns. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the other parties involved in the lawsuits may have access to substantially greater financial resources than we have to conduct such litigation. These lawsuits put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may suffer reduced instrumentation sales and/or license revenue as a result of pending lawsuits or following final resolution of lawsuits. Further, these lawsuits may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Attempts to enforce our patents may trigger third party claims that our patents are invalid. We may not prevail in any of these suits and any damage or other remedies awarded to us, if any, may not be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or others perceive any of these results to be negative, such perception could cause our stock price to decline. Acquisitions may have unexpected consequences or impose additional costs on us. Our business is highly competitive and our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products, introduce new products on a timely basis and offer our customers products that provide a more complete solution. One of the ways we may address the need to develop new products is through acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, such as our acquisition of Zymark in July 2003, our acquisition of NovaScreen in October 2005, and our acquisition of Xenogen in August 2006. From time to time, we consider and evaluate potential business combinations involving our acquisition of another company and transactions involving the sale of our company through, among other things, a possible merger or consolidation of our business into that of another entity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: •difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies and products and services of the acquired companies; 29 Table of Contents •the risk of diverting management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; •potential cost and disruptions caused by the integration of financial reporting systems and development of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •accounting consequences, including amortization of acquired intangible assets or other required purchase accounting adjustments, resulting in variability or reductions of our reported earnings; •potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; •risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in these markets have stronger market positions; •the potential loss of our key employees or those of the acquired company due to the employment uncertainties inherent in the acquisition process; •the assumption of known and potentially unknown liabilities of the acquired company; •the risk that we may find that the acquired company or business does not further our business strategy or that we paid more than what the company or business was worth; •our relationship with current and new employees and customers could be impaired; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties who believe a claim against us would be valuable to pursue; •our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture and legal contingencies, among other matters; and •revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions may be insufficient. Acquisitions may also cause us to issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; or incur other large and immediate write-offs. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business. We must also maintain our ability to manage growth effectively. Failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquisitions that we make could harm our business. Business divestitures may have unexpected consequences or impose additional costs on us. Business divestitures involve significant risks, including the fact that indemnification requirements could result in a reduction of expected proceeds from the sale transaction. In addition, the sale of certain components of our business could reduce future operating cash flows, and increase our reliance on growth in our core remaining business operations to make up for reductions in revenues, operating gross margin and cash flows. Business divestitures may also negatively impact the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that future business divestitures will be successful and will not adversely affect our business. The delay, termination or non-renewal of a large multi-year contract or the loss of, or a significant reduction in, sales to any of our significant customers could harm our operating results. We currently derive, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small number of customers. If any one of these customers terminates or substantially diminishes its relationship with us, our revenue could decline significantly. We have contractual arrangements with certain customers that encompass the sale of products and licensing of 30 Table of Contents imaging intellectual property pursuant to agreements that are renewable on an annual or multi-year basis. Failure to renew or the cancellation of these agreements by any one of our larger customers could result in a significant loss of revenue. In addition, in April 2007 we entered into a contract with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to perform in vitro compound toxicity screening pursuant to which the EPA periodically issues task orders to us. We have experienced significant, unanticipated delays in the receipt of, or authorization to initiate work with respect to, certain orders under the EPA contract. If the EPA experiences a reduction in its federal funding, elects not to proceed with the program or elects to reduce the number of compounds to be screened by us pursuant to this contract, our revenue may decline or grow more slowly than we currently expect. The temporary or permanent closure of a leased facility could harm our operating results. We currently manufacture our products in various leased facilities. We rely on a single manufacturing location to produce our microfluidic chips in Mountain View, California, and a single manufacturing location in Hopkinton, Massachusetts to produce laboratory automation, microfluidic instrument, imaging and robotics systems, with no alternative facilities. We rely on our facility in Alameda, California to produce Bioware cells and microorganisms. Our in vitro screening services are performed at a single facility located in Hanover, Maryland. These facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. If any of our facilities are closed on a temporary or permanent basis, our revenue could decline significantly. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or services infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated because there are numerous issued and pending patents in the life sciences industry and the validity and breadth of life sciences patents involve complex legal and factual questions. Our competitors may assert that their U.S. or foreign patents may cover our products and the methods we employ. For example, until February 2008 we were involved in patent litigation with AntiCancer, Inc. in which AntiCancer had alleged that we have infringed certain of its patents. Although this litigation was resolved through a settlement and cross-license agreement between the parties, there can be no assurance that we will be able to settle other infringement claims on a favorable basis in the future. Also, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may inadvertently infringe. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, letters from third parties asking us to license certain technologies that the third party believes we may be using or would like us to use. If we do not accept a license, we may be subject to claims of infringement, or may receive letters alleging infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management's attention from our core business. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. 31 Table of Contents Our rights to the use of technologies licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our products and programs may not be successful and our business prospects could be harmed. We rely on licenses to use various technologies that are material to our business, including licenses, with sublicense rights, to certain microfluidic technologies and in vivo imaging methods, licenses to the use of certain biological materials, and licenses to engineer and commercialize transgenic animals. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Our rights to use these technologies and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to the continuation of compliance with the terms of those licenses. In some cases, we do not control the prosecution or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses, or the enforcement of these patents against third parties. For example, under the Promega Corporation and The Regents of the University of California licenses for one or more patented forms of firefly luciferase used in our Bioware cell lines and LPTA animal models, we do not have the right to enforce the patent, and neither licensor is obligated to do so on our behalf. Certain of our licenses contain diligence obligations, as well as provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon specific conditions. Some of the licenses under which we have rights, such as our licenses from the University of Pennsylvania and from UT Battelle for certain microfluidic technologies, and from Stanford University for certain optical imaging methods, provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, including the right to enforce the licensed patents, but the scope of our rights and obligations under these and other licenses may become subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. For example, in 2006, Stanford raised an issue regarding the scope of products that we sell which are subject to the royalty provisions of our Stanford license agreement. Although we believe Stanford's interpretation of the license agreement is incorrect, as a result of Stanford's view of the license agreement we may amend the license agreement to change the royalties we pay to Stanford for future sales. The amendment may also include the payment of back royalties to Stanford for products we have already sold. While we have not discussed with Stanford the specific terms and conditions of an amendment or the amount of any back royalty payments, any increase in the royalties we pay to Stanford would negatively impact our gross margins. Our tax net operating losses and credit carryforwards may expire if we do not achieve or maintain profitability, or if tax regulations are changed such that they no longer allow previously generated tax net operating losses to be utilized. As of December 31, 2009, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $282.7 million and $123.1 million, respectively. We also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $7.9 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2028 if not utilized. The current remaining state net operating losses have varying expiration dates through 2029. In 2009, the State of California suspended the use of net operating losses by corporations to reduce taxable net income which is apportioned to California. In 2009, we incurred a state tax liability in California as a result of not being able to utilize previously generated losses. As of December 31, 2009, our California tax net operating losses amounted to $44.5 million. Utilization of the federal and state net operating losses and credits may be subject to a substantial limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state provisions. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses and credits before utilization. Because of our lack of earnings history and the uncertainty of realizing these net operating losses, the deferred tax assets have been substantially offset by a valuation allowance. 32 Table of Contents If we are unable to meet customer demand, it would adversely impact our financial results and restrict our sales growth. We may not be able to meet the expectations of our customers for a number of reasons. For example, our lab automation, microfluidic, and IVIS imaging instruments are all relatively complex systems, and certain components of these systems are specially manufactured by our limited and/or single-source suppliers. Supply of these parts to us requires adequate lead-time that can result in production delays. If we experience unexpected shifts in customer demand that require increases to planned manufacturing, we may experience production delays that could restrict our sales growth. Also, if we do not consistently manufacture these systems at a sufficiently high level of quality, we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers if they choose a competitor's product because our systems do not perform in accordance with our customers' expectations. If we are unable to meet customer expectations for any of our instrument systems, it would adversely affect our financial results and restrict our sales growth. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components of IVIS imaging systems, and we will be unable to manufacture or deliver our products if shipments from these suppliers are interrupted or are not supplied on a timely basis. We use original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, to supply various components of our IVIS imaging systems, including the cameras, imaging chambers, and certain subassemblies, filters and lenses. We obtain these key components from a small number of sources. For example, the lens for our IVIS Spectrum is obtained from a single source on a purchase order basis, and the CCD cameras for all of our IVIS imaging systems are obtained from a single source pursuant to a binding supply agreement. From time to time, we may experience delays in obtaining components from certain of our suppliers, which may have a negative impact on our ability to produce imaging systems. In the event of a disruption or discontinuation in supply, we believe that alternative sources for certain of these components would not be available on a timely basis, which would disrupt our operations and impair our ability to manufacture and sell our IVIS imaging systems. Our dependence upon outside suppliers and OEMs exposes us to risks, including: •the possibility that one or more of our suppliers could terminate their services at any time; •the potential inability of our suppliers to obtain required components or products; •reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternative suppliers; •the potential delays and expense of seeking alternative suppliers; and •increases in prices of key components. Accounting for the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets may have a significant adverse effect on us. In accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 360, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we assess the recoverability of identifiable intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives from acquisitions are evaluated annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment, to determine whether any portion of the remaining balance of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. If it is determined in the future that a portion of our goodwill and other 33 Table of Contents intangible assets is impaired, we will be required to write off that portion of the asset according to the methods defined by FASB ASC 360 and FASB ASC 350, which will have an adverse effect on our reported GAAP net income for the period in which the write-off occurs. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. We are comprised of a single reporting unit, and as such the first step used to identify potential impairment involves comparing the entity's estimated fair value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by utilizing information about our Company as well as publicly available industry information. In our annual determination, we principally rely on the income approach, pursuant to which we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the Company and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Determining fair value involves judgment by our management and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including point-in-time estimates of revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner that is similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of our net assets we determined the fair value of leases and certain intangible assets, including trademarks, patents, core and developed technologies and customer relationships. Our annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. With the contemporaneous sales of our PDQ and AutoTrace product lines in the fourth quarter of 2008, which met the criteria for assets held for sale prior to the goodwill impairment test date, we first determined the amount of goodwill ($14.3 million) that was to be allocated to these divestitures based upon a relative fair value basis considering their recent transaction values, and then applied our annual goodwill impairment analysis to the remaining goodwill balance ($66.3 million) which resulted in the determination that the fair value of the entity was less than its carrying value. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involved us calculating the implied goodwill for the entity. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the overall business exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill, resulting in a goodwill impairment of $43.4 million, which has been recorded in our results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. The goodwill impairment charge is non-cash in nature and does not affect our liquidity, cash flows from operating activities, or debt covenants, or have any impact on future operations. Goodwill is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. The results of this year's impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or our market capitalization declines further, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years. To the extent goodwill is impaired in future periods, its carrying value will be further written down to its implied fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an impairment charge would materially and adversely affect our GAAP reported operating results. As of December 31, 2009, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $46.2 million in our consolidated balance sheet. 34 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million related to certain intangible assets of NovaScreen based upon our annual impairment assessment. As a result of the assessment, there were indicators of impairment which required analysis on the fair value of the NovaScreen asset group, which primarily included working capital, fixed assets and intangible assets. We completed our assessment of fair value relative to the NovaScreen asset group which resulted in the impairment of the NovaScreen developed technologies. The results of the impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and operating results of the NovaScreen asset group are not as strong as anticipated, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years. If our accounting estimates are incorrect, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our critical accounting policies. We discuss these estimates in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the subsection entitled "Critical Accounting Estimates." If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. We rely on a single manufacturing location to produce our microfluidic chips and drug discovery systems, and a single location to produce laboratory automation, imaging and robotics systems, with no alternative facilities. We rely principally on our facility in Alameda, California to produce Bioware cells and microorganisms. These facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Our manufacturing facilities may be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods. Earthquakes are of particular significance because our LabChip product manufacturing facility is located in Mountain View, California, an earthquake-prone area. In the event that our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment are affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to manufacture products for sale, meet customer demands or meet sales projections, which would harm our business. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and customers, any and all of which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations that cannot presently be predicted. We are largely uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes, our anesthesia systems used with our optical imaging systems to anesthetize the animals being imaged, and our general biology operations involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials including, but not limited to, biological hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the 35 Table of Contents coverage of our insurance. We currently maintain a limited pollution cleanup insurance policy in the amount of $2.0 million. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our operating costs, which would adversely affect the commercialization of our technology. Many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology licensees employ our technology to develop preclinical animal data on therapeutic products in development that may be submitted to governmental agencies as part of a regulatory application to commence human clinical testing or to commercialize their products. It is our belief that preclinical data collected using our technology has been submitted by several of our clients and accepted by the FDA to support commencement of clinical trials, and that in several cases regulatory approval has been received for a therapeutic product based, in part, on data collected using our technology. There can be no assurance that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will continue to accept preclinical data collected using our technology and submitted as part of an application to support initiation of clinical trials, or that such data can or will be used to support regulatory approval to commercialize therapeutic products. Additionally, exports of certain products and biological reagents to foreign customers and distributors are governed by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, the Patriot Act and the Bioterrorism Safety Act. Although these laws and regulations do not restrict our present foreign sales programs, there can be no assurance that future changes to these regulatory regimes will not affect or limit our foreign sales. Exports of our optical imaging systems and biological reagents to foreign customers and distributors are governed by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, Patriot Act and Bioterrorism Safety Act. Although these laws and regulations do not restrict our present foreign sales programs, any future changes to these regulatory regimes may negatively affect or limit our foreign sales. Public perception of ethical and social issues may limit or discourage the use of mice for scientific experimentation, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit the use of genetic modifications or prohibit the practice of our technology. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that genetically engineered products are unsafe for use in research or pose a danger to the environment. The subject of genetically modified organisms, like genetically altered mice and rats, has received negative publicity and aroused significant public debate. In addition, animal rights activists could protest or make threats against our facilities, which may result in property damage. Ethical and other concerns about our methods, particularly our use of genetically altered mice and rats, could adversely affect our market acceptance. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price is extremely volatile, and you could lose a substantial portion of your investment. Our stock has been trading on the NASDAQ Global Market since mid-December 1999. We initially offered our common stock to the public at $16.00 per share. Since then our stock price has been extremely volatile and has ranged, through February 28, 2010 from a high of approximately $202.00 per share on March 2, 2000 to a low of $0.63 per share on November 21, 2008. Our stock price 36 Table of Contents may drop substantially following an investment in our common stock. We expect that our stock price will remain volatile as a result of a number of factors, including: •announcements by analysts regarding their assessment of us and our prospects; •announcements by our competitors of complementary or competing products and technologies; •announcements of our financial results, particularly if they differ from investors' expectations; and •general market volatility for technology stocks. These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition in which we are not the surviving company or which results in changes in our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination which includes us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 