Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The continuing economic pressures relating to the downturn in the economy could adversely affect our business and Consolidated Financial Statements. During economic downturns and periods of stagnant or slow economic growth, Federal and state budgets are typically negatively affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or delayed payments by our Federal and state government health care coverage programs in which we participate, including Medicare, Medicaid and other Federal or state assistance plans. Also, a reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be imposed upon us through amendments to contracts previously negotiated with the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Government programs could also slow or temporarily suspend 19 Table of Contents payments on Medicaid obligations, negatively impacting our cash flow and increase our working capital needs and interest payments. Higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may lead to lower numbers of patients enrolled in employer-provided plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering, or limit, health care coverage, or modify program designs, shifting more costs to the individual and exposing us to greater credit risk from patients or the discontinuance of drug therapy compliance. Although we believe that national economic conditions are improving, unemployment rates remain high, and commercial employers have decreased employee benefits. If they do not continue to improve or if they deteriorate further, global economic conditions may adversely impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business is subject to numerous Federal, state and local laws and regulations. See “Business – Government Regulation.” Changes in these regulations may require extensive changes to our systems and operations that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; suspension of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs; or loss of licensure. Reduction in reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payors could adversely affect our business. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, Anti-Kickback laws; Federal and state laws prohibiting self-referrals or “Stark laws”; HIPAA; False Claims Act; Civil Monetary Penalties Act; regulations of the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, and regulations of various state regulatory authorities. In that regard, our business and Consolidated Financial Statements could be affected by one or more of the following: · Federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, whether at retail or mail, and applicable licensing requirements; · the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand-name and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand-name drugs; · FDA and/or state regulation affecting the pharmacy or PBM industries; · rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and HITECH; and other federal and state laws affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information; · administration of the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation; · government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists; · state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies; · managed care reform and plan design legislation; and · direct regulation of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies. If any of our agencies or facilities fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency or facility could be suspended or disbarred from Federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid and Medicare, which could adversely affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our agencies and facilities must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. These conditions of participation vary depending on the type of agency or facility, but, in general, require our agencies and facilities to meet specified standards relating to personnel, patient rights, patient care, patient records, administrative reporting and legal compliance. If an agency or facility fails to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency or facility may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency or facility then fails to institute and comply with a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the time period provided by the state surveyor, that agency or facility could be terminated from the Medicare program. We respond in the ordinary course to deficiency notices issued by state surveyors, and none of our facilities or agencies have ever been terminated from the Medicare program for failure to comply with the conditions of participation. Any termination of one or 20 Table of Contents more of our agencies or facilities from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the Medicare conditions of participation could adversely affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition in the healthcare industry could reduce profit margins. The healthcare industry is very competitive. Our competitors include large and well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. Some of our competitors are under common control with, or owned by, pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers or retail pharmacy chains and may be better positioned with respect to the cost-effective distribution of pharmaceuticals. In addition, some of our competitors may have secured long-term supply or distribution arrangements for prescription pharmaceuticals necessary to treat certain chronic disease states on price terms substantially more favorable than the terms currently available to us. As a result of such advantageous pricing, we may be less price competitive than some of these competitors with respect to certain pharmaceutical products. Our competitive position could also be adversely affected by any inability to obtain access to new biotech pharmaceutical products. Changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payor mix and payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The sources and amounts of our patient revenue are determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Changes in the case mix of the patients, payment methodologies or payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts within our business generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for the reimbursement of prescription medications dispensed by us. These benchmarks include AWP, WAC and average manufacturer price. Many of our contracts utilize the AWP benchmark. As a part of the settlement of class-action lawsuits brought against First DataBank and Medi-Span, effective September 26, 2009, both companies announced they will cease publication of the AWP pricing benchmarks at the end of 2011. Without a suitable pricing benchmark in place many of our contracts will have to be modified and could potentially change the economic structure of our agreements. As of March 10, 2011, a viable generally accepted alternative to the AWP benchmark has not been developed by the industry, and Medi-Span has announced they will continue to publish AWP until a new benchmark is widely accepted. Client demands for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with clients or providers could adversely affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. As our clients face long-term, sustained increases in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive environment, and we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services, which could put pressure on our margins. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, may be terminated by the client on relatively short notice, typically 90 days. Our clients generally seek bids from other PBM or specialty providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. If several of these clients elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, there is a risk of contract loss and a loss of the associated revenues and profit. There are approximately 56,000 retail pharmacies in the United States. All major retail chain pharmacies and a vast majority of independent pharmacies participate in our pharmacy network. The top ten retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 65% of the total number of stores and over 80% of prescriptions filled in our network. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable on relatively short notice. If one or more of the top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, our members’ access to retail pharmacies and our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many large pharmacy chains either own PBMs today, or could attempt to acquire a PBM in the future. Ownership of PBMs by retail pharmacy chains materially and adversely affect our relationships with those pharmacy chains and on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Table of Contents Pending and future litigation could subject us to significant monetary damages and/or require us to change our business practices. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and other proceedings in connection with our operations, including the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our mail service, infusion services and community pharmacies. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings for a list of material proceedings pending against us. While we believe that these suits are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we can give no assurance that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations, or would not require us to make material changes to our business practices. We are presently responding to a small number of subpoenas and requests for information from governmental agencies. We confirm that we are not a target or a potential subject of a criminal investigation. We cannot predict with certainty what the outcome of any of the foregoing might be or whether we may in the future become a target or potential target of an investigation or the subject of further inquiries or ultimately settlements with respect to the subject matter of these subpoenas. In addition to potential monetary liability arising from these suits and proceedings, we are incurring costs in providing documents to government agencies. Current pending claims and associated costs may be covered by our insurance, but certain other costs are not insured. There can be no assurance that such costs will not increase and/or continue to be material to the Company’s performance in the future. In addition, as we continue our strategic assessment and cost reduction efforts, there is an increased risk of employment and workers compensation-related litigation and/or administrative claim brought against us. We would defend against any and all such litigation and claims, as appropriate. We do not believe that any one or more such employment and workers compensation related litigation and claims would have a material adverse effect upon the us and our Consolidated Financial Statements; however, there can be no assurance that there would not be a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in any particular reporting period. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our Consolidated Financial Statements. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages. For example, a prescription drug dispensing error could result in a patient receiving the wrong or incorrect amount of medication, leading to personal injury or death. Our business and Consolidated Financial Statements could suffer if we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable contractual indemnity or insurance coverage. Loss of relationships with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers and changes in discounts provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide discounts on drugs dispensed from our pharmacies, and pay service fees for other programs and services that we provide. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if: (i) we were to lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; (ii) discounts decline due to changes in available discounts and/or utilization of specified pharmaceutical products by Plan Sponsors and other clients; (iii) legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services; or (iv) pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services. We purchase substantially all of our pharmaceutical products from one vendor and a disruption in our purchasing arrangements could adversely impact our business. We purchase substantially all of our prescription products, subject to certain minimum periodic purchase levels and excluding purchases of therapeutic plasma products, from a single wholesaler, ABDC, pursuant to a prime vendor agreement. The term of this agreement extends until August 2012, subject to extension for up to two additional years. Any significant disruption in our relationship with ABDC, or in ABDC's supply and timely delivery of products to us, would make it difficult and possibly more costly for us to continue to operate our business until we are able to execute a replacement wholesaler agreement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement wholesaler on a timely basis or that such wholesaler would be able to fulfill our demands on similar financial terms and service levels. If we are unable to identify a replacement on substantially similar financial terms and/or service levels, our Consolidated Financial Statements may be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Failure to develop new products and services may adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our clients. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business as we continue to utilize new and better channels to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured business and technology infrastructure. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems in a secure manner, and maintain and improve continually the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. Problems with the implementation and conversion of our pharmacy system could result in additional expense. The Company has committed significant financial and other resources to migrate to a pharmacy dispensing, clinical management and accounts receivable management system for the Pharmacy Services segment that is designed to streamline our business processes, provide improved data reporting, data management, scalability and cash posting and billing and collections. We have completed the implementation of that system at the vast majority of our community pharmacies and plan to implement the same system at our mail service operations in 2011. Any delay in the implementation of this system at our mail service operations could result in higher operating costs, additional charges for system design changes or delays in the execution of our strategic plan due to our inability to scale our current operating systems. Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected. While management believes that controls and processes are satisfactory, there can be no assurance that accounts receivable collectability will remain at current levels. The recently enacted Health Reform Law and its implementation could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Health Reform Law will result in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of health care. The details for implementation of many of the requirements under the Health Reform Law will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies, including the HHS. In addition, there are currently challenges to the constitutionality of that law pending in Federal court. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these challenges and, if unsuccessful, what many of the final requirements of the Health Reform Law will be, and the net effect of those requirements on us. As such, we cannot predict the impact of the Health Reform Law on our business, operations or financial performance. In addition, there have been a number of lawsuits filed that challenge all or part of the Health Reform Law. On January 31, 2011, a Florida District Court ruled that the entire law is unconstitutional. Other courts have ruled in favor of the law or have only struck down certain provisions of the law; a number of these cases are in the process of being appealed. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any of this litigation or its impact on us, our business and Consolidated Financial Statements. Further, various Republican Party Congressional leaders have indicated a desire to repeal or amend some or all of these laws. While the Senate voted against repealing the whole health care reform law, there are a number of bills that have been introduced that seek to repeal or change certain provisions of the law. As such, we are unable to predict the final state of the Health Reform Law or its impact on us. 23 Table of Contents Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We dispense significant volumes of prescription medications from our pharmacies. Our dispensing volume is the principle driver of revenue and profitability. When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these higher-risk drugs. Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. The loss of a relationship with one or more Plan Sponsors could negatively impact our business. Where we do not have preferred or exclusive arrangements with Plan Sponsors, our contracts for reimbursement with Plan Sponsors are often on a perpetual or “evergreen” basis. These evergreen contracts are subject to termination by a Plan Sponsor’s written notice. The required notice varies by contract and is typically 30 to 90 days. Depending on the amount of revenues generated by any single Plan Sponsor or more than one Plan Sponsor in the aggregate, one or more terminations could have a material and adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are unaware of any intention by a Plan Sponsor to terminate or not renew an agreement with us. Home infusion joint ventures formed with hospitals could adversely affect our financial results. The home infusion industry is currently seeing renewed activity in the formation of equity-based infusion joint ventures formed with hospitals. This activity stems, in part, from hospitals seeking to position themselves for new paradigms in the delivery of coordinated healthcare and new methods of payment, including an emerging interdisciplinary care model forming what is being labeled an accountable care organization. These organizations are encouraged by the new Health Reform Law. These entities are being designed in order to save money and improve quality of care by better integrating care, with the healthcare provider possibly sharing in the financial benefits of the new efficiencies. Participation in equity-based joint ventures offer hospitals and other providers an opportunity to more efficiently transfer patients to less expensive care setting, while keeping the patient within its network. Additionally, it provides many hospitals with a mechanism to invest accumulated profits in a growing sector with attractive margins. If these home infusion joint ventures continue to expand and we lose referrals as a result, our Consolidated Financial Statements could be adversely affected. Network lock-outs by health insurers and PBMs could adversely affect our financial results. Many Plan Sponsors and PBMs continue to create exclusive specialty networks which limit a member’s access to a mail service facility or network of preferred pharmacies. To the extent our pharmacies are excluded from these networks, we are unable to dispense medications to those members and bill for prescriptions to those member’s insurance carriers. If these specialty networks continue to expand and we are locked out from dispensing specialty medications to members of exclusive networks, our Consolidated Financial Statements could be adversely affected. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retrain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. Our business relies significantly on its ability to attract and retain nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of their job responsibilities. From time to time and particularly in recent years, there have been shortages of nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals in certain local and regional markets. As such, we are often required to compete for personnel with other healthcare systems and our competitors. Our ability to attract and retain personnel depends on several factors, including our ability to provide them with engaging assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any of these areas. In addition, where labor shortages arise in markets in which we operate, we may face higher costs to attract personnel, and we may have to provide them with more attractive benefit packages than originally anticipated or are being paid in other markets where such shortages don’t exist at the time. In either case, such circumstances could cause our profitability to decline. Finally, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where healthcare providers historically have unionized or unionization occurs in our existing 24 Table of Contents geographic areas, we cannot provide assurance that negotiating collective bargaining agreements will not have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel and on our financial results. If we are unable to attract and retain nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals, the quality of our services may decline and we could lose patients and referral sources. Introduction of new drugs or accelerated adoption of existing lower margin drugs could cause us to experience lower revenues and profitability when prescribers prescribe these drugs for their patients or they are mandated by Plan Sponsors. The pharmaceutical industry pipeline of new drugs includes many drugs that over the long term, may replace older, more expensive therapies, as a result of such drugs going off patent and being replaced by generic substitutes, new and less expensive delivery methods (such as when an infusion or injectable drug is replaced with an oral drug) or additional products are added to a therapeutic class, thereby increasing price competition among competing manufacturer’s products in that therapeutic category. In such cases, manufacturers have the ability to increase drug acquisition costs or lower the selling price of replaced products. This could have the effect of lowering our revenues and/or margins. The loss of a relationship with one or more of our discount cash card brokers could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with discount cash card brokers are typically subject to termination by a broker’s written notice 90 days prior to effective date. Depending on the amount of revenues generated by any broker agreement, one or more terminations could have a material and adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are unaware of any intention by a discount cash card broker to terminate or not renew an agreement with us. The brokers we use are typically small, privately held marketing companies. Though we have an exclusive arrangement with the largest broker for the next two years, we cannot predict its future business plans or those of smaller brokers. Subject to certain limitations, the former CHS stockholders and certain former option holders of CHS may sell our common stock beginning September 26, 2010, which could cause our stock price to decline. The shares of our common stock that the former CHS stockholders and certain former option holders of CHS received in connection with the merger with CHS are restricted, but such former CHS stockholders and former option holders may sell the shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. We have entered into a stockholders’ agreement with the former CHS stockholders and certain former option holders of CHS, pursuant to which we have agreed to register their shares of our common stock with the SEC in order to facilitate sales of those shares. The sale of a substantial number of our shares by such parties or our other stockholders within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decline, making it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock or acquire other businesses using our common stock as consideration. Our issuance of common stock in the merger will increase the risk that we could experience an “ownership change” in the future that could significantly limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $43.4 million. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5-percent shareholders” that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change NOLs equal to the value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation for a taxable year would be increased by the amount of any “recognized built-in gains” for such year and the amount of any unused annual limitation in a prior year. We did not experience an ownership change upon the issuance of common stock in the merger. However, the issuance of common stock in the merger, together with other issuances of common stock during the applicable three-year period, could cause an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. As a result, the issuance of our common stock in the merger will increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change during the three-year period following the merger. 25 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Further, our acquisition and internal development activity may impose strains on our existing resources. Our growth strategy anticipates acquisitions in business lines identified as strategic drivers of future profitability throughout the United States. Any acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or patients of acquired agencies and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired agencies. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, as we continue to expand our markets, our growth could strain our resources, including management, information and accounting systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other internal controls. Our resources may not keep pace with our anticipated growth. If we do not manage our expected growth effectively, our future prospects could be affected adversely. Risks Related to Indebtedness The significant indebtedness incurred to complete the acquisition imposed operating and financial restrictions on us which, together with the resulting debt service obligations, may significantly limit our ability to execute our business strategy and increase the risk of default under our debt obligations. We issued $225 million of senior unsecured notes (“Senior Unsecured Notes”) and entered into a credit agreement (the "Original Senior Secured Facility") to finance the acquisition of CHS. In late 2010, we refinanced and entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Amended and Restated Facility”) which resulted in a $150.0 million revolving facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”). The terms of the Amended and Restated Facility require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum liquidity levels and maximum accounts receivable turnover levels. In addition, our debt contains certain restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur indebtedness or liens; · make investments or capital expenditures; · engage in mergers, acquisitions or asset sales; · declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; and · modify our organizational documents. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or take certain corporate actions. The covenants may also restrict our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, will be dependent upon our ability to substantially improve our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility has interest payments that are subject to variable interest rates and are therefore dependent upon future fluctuations in interest rates, which are beyond our control. We expect to use cash flow from operations to pay our expenses and amounts due under the Senior Unsecured Notes and our other outstanding indebtedness. We cannot provide assurance that our business operations will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund these cash requirements and debt service obligations. If our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our debt, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned expansions and capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the degree to which we may be leveraged as a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger or otherwise could: · materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; · make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete; 26 Table of Contents · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt; · reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; · limit our ability to fund the repurchase of the Senior Unsecured Notes upon a change of control; or · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities. Our Senior Unsecured Notes are not secured by our assets or those of our guarantor subsidiaries. Our Senior Unsecured Notes and the related guarantees are our and our guarantor subsidiaries’ general unsecured obligations and are effectively subordinated in right of payment to all of our and our guarantor subsidiaries’ secured indebtedness and obligations, including all indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility. If we become insolvent or are liquidated, or if payment under any of the instruments governing our secured debt is accelerated, the lenders under those instruments will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt. Accordingly, our secured indebtedness and obligations, including all indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility, is senior to the Senior Unsecured Notes to the extent of the value of the excess collateral securing that indebtedness. In that event, because the Senior Unsecured Notes and the guarantees will not be secured by any of our assets, it is possible that our remaining assets might be insufficient to satisfy claims of holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes in full or at all. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $81.2 million aggregate principal amount of secured indebtedness outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Additionally, under the terms of our prime vendor agreement with our primary drug wholesaler, we granted our primary drug wholesaler a secured second lien in all of our inventory as well as the proceeds thereof. Any additional borrowings pursuant to our existing credit facility would be secured indebtedness, if incurred. Although the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes contains limitations on the amount of additional indebtedness that we may incur, under certain circumstances the amount of such indebtedness could be substantial and, under certain circumstances, such indebtedness may be secured indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the Senior Unsecured Notes. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. Although the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions, including secured debt, could be substantial. The Revolving Credit Facility permits, among other things, revolving credit borrowings of up to $150.0 million. Adding additional debt to current debt levels could exacerbate the leverage-related risks described above. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Unsecured Notes, and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. A significant reduction in our operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, Consolidated Financial Statements, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Unsecured Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Senior Unsecured Notes, on or before the maturity of the debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Senior Unsecured Notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Revolving Credit Facility, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, 27 Table of Contents premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Unsecured Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Unsecured Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in the Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed there under to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments there under, and cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility or holders of other indebtedness to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility or any other indebtedness and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the Revolving Credit Facility or such other indebtedness, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The Senior Unsecured Notes may impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing our business strategies or favorable business opportunities. Subject to a number of important exceptions, the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility may limit our ability to: · Incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; · transfer or sell assets; · make certain investments; · pay dividends or distributions, redeem subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; · create or incur liens; · incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; · issue capital stock of our subsidiaries; · consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and · enter into transactions with affiliates. Consequently, the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Additionally, the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum liquidity levels and maximum accounts receivable turnover levels. We cannot assure you that we will meet those tests or that the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the Revolving Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes, as applicable. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility and the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes may elect to declare all of their respective outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable there under, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes upon a Change of Control or Asset Sale. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes will have the right to require us to purchase the Senior Unsecured Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Senior Unsecured Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Asset Sale, holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes may, under certain circumstances, have the right to require us to purchase a portion of the Senior Unsecured Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Senior Unsecured Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. 28 Table of Contents If a Change of Control offer or Asset Sale offer is made, we may not have available funds sufficient to pay the Change of Control purchase price or Asset Sale purchase price for any or all of the Senior Unsecured Notes that might be delivered by holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes seeking to exercise the Change of Control put right or Asset Sale put right. If we are required to purchase Senior Unsecured Notes pursuant to a Change of Control offer or Asset Sale offer, we would be required to seek third-party financing to the extent we do not have available funds to meet our purchase obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms to us or at all. Accordingly, none of the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes may receive the Change of Control purchase price or Asset Sale purchase price for their Senior Unsecured Notes. Our failure to make or consummate the Change of Control offer or Asset Sale offer, or to pay the Change of Control purchase price or Asset Sale purchase price when due, will give the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes the rights described in “Description of Notes — Events of Default and Remedies”, which is in the Company’s Form S-4 filed with the SEC on June 22, 2010. In addition, the events that constitute a Change of Control or Asset Sale under the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes may also be events of default under the Revolving Credit Facility. These events may permit the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility to accelerate the debt outstanding there under and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in our specified assets, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the Senior Unsecured Notes and reducing the practical benefit of the offer-to-purchase provisions to the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes. A subsidiary guarantee could be voided if it constitutes a fraudulent transfer under U.S. bankruptcy or similar state law, which would prevent the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes from relying on that subsidiary to satisfy claims. The Senior Unsecured Notes are guaranteed by our domestic restricted subsidiaries. The guarantees may be subject to review under U.S. federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent conveyance laws if a bankruptcy or another similar case or lawsuit is commenced by or on behalf of our or a guarantor subsidiary’s unpaid creditors or another authorized party. Under these laws, if a court were to find that, at the time any guarantor subsidiary issued a guarantee of the Senior Unsecured Notes, either it issued the guarantee to delay, hinder or defraud present or future creditors or it received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for issuing the guarantee and at the time: · It was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of issuing the guarantee; · it was engaged, or about to engage, in a business or transaction for which its remaining unencumbered assets constituted unreasonably small capital to carry on its business; · it intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature; or · it was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied, then the court could void the obligations under the guarantee, subordinate the guarantee of the Senior Unsecured Notes to other debt or take other action detrimental to holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes. We cannot be sure as to the standard that a court would use to determine whether a guarantor subsidiary was solvent at the relevant time, or, regardless of the standard that the court uses, that the issuance of the guarantees would not be voided or that the guarantees would not be subordinated to other debt. If such a case were to occur, the guarantee could also be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor subsidiary, the obligations of the applicable guarantor subsidiary were incurred for less than fair consideration. A court could thus void the obligations under the guarantee, subordinate the guarantee to the applicable guarantor subsidiary’s other debt or take other action detrimental to holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes. If a court were to void a guarantee, holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes would no longer have a claim against the guarantor subsidiary. Sufficient funds to repay the Senior Unsecured Notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantor subsidiaries, if any. In addition, the court might direct the holder of the Senior Unsecured Notes to repay any amounts already received from or are attributable to the guarantor subsidiary. Each subsidiary guarantee contains a provision intended to limit the guarantor subsidiary’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer. This provision may not be effective to protect the subsidiary guarantees from being voided under fraudulent transfer law. 29 Table of Contents Our subsidiary guarantors may be unable to fulfill their obligations under their guarantees. The ability of our subsidiary guarantors to make any required payments under their guarantees depends on our future operating performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Such subsidiaries’ businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and their anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in their being unable to honor their guarantees or to fund other liquidity needs. If such subsidiaries do not have enough money, they may be required to refinance all or part of their then-existing debt, sell assets, or borrow more money. They may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to them, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Unsecured Notes, may restrict such subsidiaries from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially and adversely affect the value of the Senior Unsecured Notes and the ability of such subsidiaries to pay the amounts due under their guarantees, if any. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 