Item 1A. Risk Factors The cautionary statements set forth below, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other SEC filings, discuss important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Our future growth is dependent on the sales process and market acceptance of our products and services. Our future performance depends on our ability to maintain and increase revenues from new and existing customers. Our sales process to acquire new customers is typically extended in duration, because of industry factors such as the approval process in hospitals for purchases from new suppliers, the duration of existing supply contracts, and implementation delays pending termination of a hospital’s previous supply relationships. Our future performance also depends on the market accepting our product and service offerings, which emphasize the supply of reusable surgical products to a market that predominantly uses disposable products. We are also regularly developing new instrument processing programs. We are subject to a risk that the market will not broadly accept these product offerings, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our restructuring of our sales, service and operations might disrupt our business. We are in the process of implementing recommendations of our management consulting firm for a reorganization of our sales, service and operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations— Overview”. We are subject to risks that the reorganization might not be successful, and might result in business disruption and higher costs than anticipated. We may need additional capital in the future, which might not be available; potential impact of covenant default. Our business is capital intensive and requires annual expenditures for additional surgical products. Should we need or otherwise decide to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or otherwise support our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we were unable to comply with certain financial covenants in our credit facility. The financial institutions providing the credit facility waived the requirement to meet these covenants as of December 31, 2007 and amended the amount of the credit facility and covenants thereafter. There can be no assurance that our lenders will issue a waiver or grant an amendment in future periods. The revolving credit facility expires in June 2008. We are negotiating an extention of the existing credit facility or a new credit facility to commence prior to the expiration of the current credit facility. We may not be able to extend or renew the credit facility, which would adversely affect us. Our continuing access to that facility depends on our ability to comply with or satisfactorily restructure these financial covenants, which is not assured. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We rely on key suppliers. We rely on Aesculap as our major source of supply of instruments for our instrument processing programs. Any failure of Aesculap to furnish instruments for any reason would materially and adversely affect our ability to service these programs until we secured one or more alternative suppliers. We also have a procurement agreement with Standard Textile as our supply source for our reusable surgical products through August 2008. If Standard Textile were unable to perform under this agreement, or if we are unable to extend this agreement beyond August 2008 or find a suitable alternative, we would be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents The loss of a significant customer or purchasing organization could adversely affect our operating results. During the year ended December 31, 2007, hospitals belonging to three group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), Novation, LLC, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P. and MedAssets, Inc. accounted for approximately 63% of our sales. One customer, a healthcare provider, accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues in 2007. Our business with these GPOs is pursuant to short-term agreements, which are subject to renewal from time to time through competitive processes. Although each GPO member hospital currently makes its purchasing decisions on an individual basis, the loss of a substantial portion of the GPO hospitals’ business would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include a number of distributors and manufacturers, as well as the in-house reprocessing operations of hospitals. Certain of our existing and potential competitors possess substantially greater resources than we. Some of our competitors, including Allegiance Corporation (a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc.) and Medline Industries, Inc., serve as the sole supplier of a wide assortment of products to a significant number of hospitals. While we have a substantial array of surgical products, many of our competitors have a greater number of products for the entire hospital, which in some instances is a competitive disadvantage for us. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. See “Business-Competition.” The loss of key executives and employees could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the contributions of executives and key employees. The loss of executives and certain key employees in sales, operations and marketing could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to penetrate our markets, operate efficiently, and develop and sell new products and services. We also believe our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. In January 2008, we appointed a new Chief Executive Officer to lead the Company. Our ability to effectively grow depends on our ability to improve our operational systems. We have expanded our operations since inception and expect to expand to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management, financial and operational resources. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and continue to invest in the operational infrastructure of our business. Our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims. The use of medical devices such as surgical instruments entails an inherent risk of product liability or other claims initiated by patients or hospitals. Any of those claims in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in federal or state regulations could materially adversely affect us. Significant aspects of our businesses are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing, among other things, medical waste-disposal and workplace health and safety. In addition, most of the products furnished or sold by us are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, as well as by other federal, state and local agencies. Our facilities are subject to quality systems inspections by FDA officials. The FDA has the power to enjoin future violations, seize adulterated or misbranded devices, and require the manufacturer to remove products from the market, and publicize relevant facts. Federal, state or local governments might impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could materially adversely affect us. See “Business-Regulation.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 7 Table of Contents 